U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8537913 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al I painter, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates work in the field oft !artwork. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
meets four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect 
that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 1 The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion 
based on membershjp with rel !Association of Folk Artisans and Artists ofl I I _ Specifically, the Petitioner claims: 
In accordance with the Charter ofl J admission to the Association is granted 
based on recommendation of Art Experts Coµncil composed solely of nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk arts and based on the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
applicant's outstanding artistic achievements in the field ofl I folk arts, as judged 
by such nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk 
art. 
Although he references a "Charter," the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted a charter 
or similar documentation to support his assertions. In fact, the record shows that at initial filing, the 
Petitioner offered his membership certifil ate, al d in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), he presented a screenshot from that provides a general overview and purpose of 
I I including contact information. These materials, however, do not demonstrate the 
requirements or criteria for obtaining membership withl I Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish thatl I's membership requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 2 At initial filing, the Pe~itioner submitted two articles published i~ I and I I Regarding I althou h the Petitioner claimed a publication 
date o~ "I 201 7, the translation reflects a date of 2017." In response to the 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a letter from the Regional Printing House, LLC, 
indicating that the article "was announced ... ~---~ 2017." However, the Petitioner did not 
present a complete and accurate translation of the article. Any document in a foreign language must 
be accompanied by a foll English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must 
certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner provided a 
translation that conflicts with other evidence, the Petitioner did not show that the translated material 
is accurate and supports the Petitioner's claims. Inconsistencies in the record must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). In addition, the Petitioner did not include the required author for the I I I !article. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish that these regional newspapers qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner offered a letter from the 
editor of1 lwho stated that the newspaper covers thel I region with "an average 
of 9,000 -11,000 copies per year." In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the editor of 
I I who indicated that the "spread area isl ~ and "is published per a week 
in 3000 (three hundred copies)." However, the Petitioner did not provide any independent, objective 
evidence showing the newspapers' standings as major media. USCIS need not rely on the self-
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover a 
magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Further, the 
Petitioner did not show the significance of the "9,000 -11,000" and "3000" (or "three hundred") 
circulation figures or explain how such data reflects status as major media. 3 
We note that in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided two pieces of material 
published after the initial filing of the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As such, we will not consider this evidence in our 
adjudication of this appeal. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.4 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that "his mastery of traditional! I art was recognized as a 
contribution of major significance to the field by leading experts in this field." The record reflects that 
the Petitioner submitted three recommendation letters that opined on his abilities, skills, and personal 
traits. For instance, "[i]n two years, he got all the necessary skills where others were already doing 
for a long time" I I, "[ the Petitioner] distinguished himself with diligence and critical 
engagement, which . . . stern from his intellectual curiosity and commitment to learning" D I I, and "[the Petitioner~ is extremely creative and is able to produce unique, expressive, and 
inventive of art"I _ I. However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill 
set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Further, the record must be supported 
by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a 
significant level, which the letters do not show. Furthermore, none of the letters, as asserted by the 
Petitioner, mention or reference his artwork as contributions of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his artwork has had on the overall field. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra. at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although he 
provided samples of his artwork demonstrating originality, the Petitioner did not explain or establish 
how the artwork impacted or influenced the overall field. 7 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships, published 
material, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach this 
additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner claims experience as a miniature painter, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14274052 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an operatic vocalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
only satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed at various concert and recital venues in the United States and France. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner filed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating that "I am filing an appeal 
to the AAO," and that she would be providing a brief and/or additional evidence within 30 days. 
(emphasis in original). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a). In her subsequent brief, she contested the Director's 
decision as a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a). As the Petitioner 
filed an appeal to us, we will adjudicate her Form I-290B as an appeal. Furthermore, the regulation 
does not permit us to adjudicate her appeal as a motion because motion jurisdiction lies with the 
official who made the latest decision in the proceeding, which, in this case, is the Director. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for one additional criterion. After reviewing all of the 
presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
2 
the material. 1 At initial filing, the Petitioner provided articles posted online and printed in 
publications. The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), stating that "some articles [] mention 
the [Petitioner's] name but are about the performance or production rather than the [Petitioner]." See, 
e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Director indicated that 
"some articles [are] about the [Petitioner] relating to her work," but she did not show "that the 
publications qualify as major trade publications or some other form of major media." Further, the 
Director offered various types of documentation, such as the title, date, and author of the published 
material; the circulation (online and/or in print); comparative circulation data of major publications in 
the field; and the intended audience of the publication. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted translations of two articles published in Midi Libre and 
circulation data for the publication. 2 In denying the petition, the Director determined that "the 
[P]etitioner submitted sufficient evidence about Midi Libre to establish that it is a form of major 
media," but the Petitioner did not include the authors of the two articles. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 3 
In her brief: the Petitioner argues that "the Service did not address there being an issue with the absence 
of the author's name." Besides the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requiring "the title, date, 
and author of the material," the Director, as indicated above, informed the Petitioner in the RFE of the 
inclusion of the title, date, and author. In fact, the Petitioner's cover letter in response to the RFE 
repeated the Director's RFE language, specifically citing "the title, date, and author of the published 
material." 
In addition, the Petitioner submits two letters. However, as she did not present this evidence in her 
initial filing or in response to the Director's RFE, we will not consider this new evidence in our 
adjudication of this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that 
if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any 
purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); 
see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the Director erred in determining the absence of the authors in the published material. 
Furthermore, we do not agree with the Director that the Petitioner demonstrated that Midi Libre 
qualifies as a major medium. In the RFE response, the Petitioner provided circulation figures from 
2018 and 2019 for the publication. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the relevance or 
significance of the data to show Midi Libre 's status as a major medium. The Petitioner did not offer, 
for example, comparative statistics for major newspapers in France in order to demonstrate Midi 
Libre 's standing as a major medium. Moreover, although she claimed that Midi Libre "is one of the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 The Petitioner did not make any arguments or provide evidence relating to the other initially submitted articles and 
publications. 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
top newspapers in the entire country of France," the Petitioner did not submit documentation to support 
her assertions. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the record reflects her experience, the Petitioner did not establish that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14274123 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a designer and manufacturer ofl I vehicles, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a I I engineer, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary asl I engineer since 2018. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized 
award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must meet at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for two additional 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has the Beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based, in part or in 
full, on citation numbers. Instead, the Director conducted his own Google Scholar search and found 
"no profile associated with the beneficiary's name" and requested "what, if any additional Google 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance) . 
2 
Scholar profile and labels are associated with the beneficiary's publications." In response, the 
Petitioner argued about the accuracy and reliability of citation counts. In denying the petition, the 
Director referenced figures "from the Google Scholar database revealed the profile associated with the 
beneficiary's name" and compares the Petitioner's cumulative citations to "other published experts in 
the beneficiary's field of endeavor" to "show[] that scientists who have risen to the very top of the 
beneficiary's field have garnered citations numbered in the thousands."2 
Neither the statute nor the regulations require the Petitioner to submit citatory evidence for this 
criterion. As guidance, examples of original work that constitutes major, significant contributions 
include, but not limited to, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the 
individual's work as authoritative in the field. 3 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the 
field has taken interest in an individual's research or written work. In addition, citatory evidence may 
contain probative value in corroborating statements in recommendation letters or supporting other 
documentation in establishing the significance of the contributions. If the Petitioner provides citatory 
evidence, the burden remains with the Petitioner to show the accuracy, reliability, and relevance of 
those figures and explain how they demonstrate original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
The comparison of a beneficiary's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate 
in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates 
an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final 
merits determination. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether a 
beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than how the 
citations reflect a beneficiary's national or international acclaim or where the cumulative citations rank 
among other renowned scientists in the field. However, a comparison of citations of a beneficiary's 
individual article to a particular scientific article that the field views as being majorly significant may 
be probative to establish a citation baseline for majorly significant scientific articles in the field. 
On appeal, in arguing the unreliability and inaccuracy of using Google Scholar labeling data, the 
Petitioner provides cumulative citations from Google Scholar for other scientists depending on various 
labels and submits the Beneficiary's Google Scholar individual article citations showing that his 
highest cited article received 35 citations. Although the Petitioner does not contend using citatory 
evidence to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility, the record does not reflect that the citation figures 
for any of the Beneficiary's individual articles demonstrate contributions of major significance in the 
field as the Petitioner did not offer evidence explaining the relevance of the citation numbers. 
Moreover, as previously discussed, comparing cumulative citations to other scientists is more 
appropriate in a final merits determination where the probative nature of the evidence would be best 
addressed. Given that the Petitioner does not argue the Beneficiary's eligibility based on citatory 
evidence and the Director's improper application of comparing the Beneficiary's cumulative citations 
2 The Director included screenshots of the Beneficiary's Google Scholar profile under the labels'-----,,---,..,...---' I I and .__ ____ __.' screenshots of other individuals' Google Scholar cumulative citations, and a 2014 
Scientometrics a11icle relating to citation percentiles. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
3 
to other scientists to show his acclaim or overall placement in the field for this criterion, we will not 
further consider the Google Scholar data. 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary "is the named inventor on two patents for._l __ _. 
technologies assigned tq I." In general, a patent generally recognizes 
the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner claims that is "has demonstrated the major significance of 
these original contributions by providing evidence of the commercialization of these technologies and 
of their impact on the field" and broadly lists exhibits. However, the Petitioner did not specifically 
identify the evidence and explain how it supports its assertions. The majority of the exhibits relate to 
recommendation letters that make no mention of the Petitioner's patents or describe how the 
commercialization of the patents resulted in widespread usage, signifying a contribution of major 
significance in the field. In fact, only three of the letters even referenced his patents, which were only 
briefly mentioned. For example, "[ the Beneficiary] is the author of two patents regarding! I I t' -~----------'' and "[i]n addition to his many patent and research 
publications, [the Beneficiary] has also served as a valuable source for the scientific community"LJ I ~ Neither letter elaborates nor explains the significance of the patents in the field. 
Moreover,! I stated he collaborated with the Beneficiary on two patents and ~ is 
set to apply these systems to thei~ !vehicles in the near future," indilatinJ potential usa e 
but does not show the influence in the overall field beyond the testing stages at 4 Similar! I ~ndicated that " t he al orithms he developed have been tested and validated b ~-----' 
engineers on th_._~---~------' further confirming the important timing and relevance of 
his work." Again,~--~ does not describe the overall impact of the Beneficiary's algorithms 
beyondDs testing and validating stages. 
The Petitioner also contends that the Beneficiarr's "patented techniques have been cited in subsequent 
patents assigned t-,.__ ________ _,, LI I and 
more" and submits screenshots from patents.google.com. However, as the Petitioner did not make 
these claims and submit these documents before the Director, either at the time it filed the petition or 
in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims and documents in 
our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter o_f Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
In addition to the letters discussed above, some of them reference the Beneficiary's research and 
contributions in terms of ros ective im act or influence. For instance, the Beneficiary's research on 
th modeling "can reflect the aging process ot1, I' 
, "the accurate information provided by this method can protec~ _ I --------~-----., I I, "this method can be utilized to develop the 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
4 
I systems for different I 7" I I, and ""[the 
._B-en_e_f~1c~i-ary_'_s ]_r ..... esearch regarding the I ~n drastically reduce the cost of a 
and modeling that [the Beneficiary] developed can be used to predict 
1------~---_.protect ~---~' and reduce the .__ ________ ~replacement" 
.__ ___ __, ( emphasis added). Here, the letters hypothesize on the effect of the Beneficiary's research 
and work at some undetermined time in the future. The letters do not show that the significant nature 
of his research has already been realized or has been implemented or utilized in a manner consistent 
with major significance. 
M oreover, e e ers ISCUSS th 1 tt d. th f d. em mgso e ene 1crnry s researc fth B fi . WI OU h ·th t furth 1 . . h er exo ammg ow 
the work has resulted in contributions of major significance. For exampleJ 
indicated findings from the Beneficiary's master thesis relating to a I 
I 
I' and his design of a 1 
I I' However,! ldid not 
elaborate and describe how this work has somehow affected the field in a significant manner. 
Likewise stated that the Beneficiary's "research has built a critical bridge between the 
,,__ ________ ..,_e;:.;n=i;;;:n:..::.e.=.cer::.;:i;;;;:n=-:;m;;;;:o.:::....::;dels" and his algorithm estimates are 'I I 
L..---~---~----------' ' Although he opines on the importance of the Beneficiary's 
findings....._ __ __, did not expand upon the impact or influence in the wider field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Beneficiary's research or work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an individual contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 7 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 Id. 
5 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role and references two 
recommendation letters. Specifically,! ~ in cha,._r ... e::........;os:...f...._..,.._ ________ __, I I for the Petitioner, described the Beneficiary's role as ,__ __ _.engineer, such as "[the 
Beneficiary] works with the Department to design and create._! _____ __. I I that will maximiz ensure safety standards, offer optimal performance and 
handling, and reduce consumer cost." listed other responsibilities, such as establishing 
novel designs for systems; developing and designing testing, modeling, and 
assessing of,___~ systems; creating the software for the I I system; and 
collaborating with anld providrg hands-on support to other engineers during production, assessment, 
and deployment of systems. Moreover.I I stated that the Beneficiary's 
"extraordinary skills offer us a great strategic advantage and he plays an essential role in perfecting 
[the Petitioner'sj , I design." 
Instead of describing how the Beneficiary has significantly contributed to the Petitioner's outcomes 
and activitiesl I offered a general job description and duties of the position. I I 
did not provide specific information, explaining how the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role. 8 
He did not, for example, detail the Beneficiary's contributions and show how his role a~ I 
engineer resulted in successes or achievements for the company, signifying a crucial or essential role. 
Similarly, the letter froml I previously discussed, reflects the nature of the role rather than 
how the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role for the Petitioner. Specifically] I stated 
that "[the Beneficiary's] essential role asl I developer [for the Petitioner] involves applying his 
expertise in I ~ systems to develop a strategy to find the 
balancing point between thd t and "[t]his is an absolutel[i necessity 
for [the Petitioner's] vehicle to surpass its competition and improve thel industry." 
Again.I I does not describe what contributions the Beneficiary made in his role asl . I 
engineer for the Petitioner and how those contributions resulted in the successful outcomes or activities 
of the company. I I for instance, did not identify the Beneficiary's! I 
strategy and how it impacted the business. 
In addition, the Petitioner initiall claimed that the Beneficiary met this criterion "through his post­
doctoral tenure at " S ecificall , the Petitioner stated that I I 
.__ __ -:-------:---;:::::======='.....:1:.:.:n===::;--:-----' Program, one of the world's leading 
research programs m has partnered with I I to advance the 
development of L-_ _,----,. ____ ~ _____ __J vehicles," and "[ d]uring his doctoral and 
post-doctoral tenure at the Beneficiary] played a critical role in leading key research for this 
program." As it related to the Petitioner provided documentation regarding the university's 
ran~ings, rd media articles reporting onD's "notable accolades for research" and collaboration 
wit In res onse to the Director's RFE the Petitioner contends that the Beneficia " la ed a 
ivotal role in th 
project." Further, the Petitioner stressed the ' and ,__ ______ _. ._ ___________ __. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
,....t.._h..,.ec.i.1--,-----.:::,----------c------,JJ' and stated that '~I -~I is a highly ranked research university in 
,__I _ ___.I c:nada." 
On appeal, the Petitioner no longer argues the Beneficiary's role withOoverall. Instead, the 
Petitioner changes its claim and narrows the Beneficiary's role to.__ _____________ _. I t and submits additional documentation. As the Petitioner did not make this claim and 
present these documents before the Director, either at the time it filed the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this claim and documents in our adjudication of 
this appeal.9 Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 766; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec at 533. Furthermore, 
although the Petitioner references testimonial letters froml I, I I andl I 
they do not discuss how the Beneficiary's role with thel I project constituted a critical 
role forD The letters do not indicate or explain how the Beneficiary's contributions to the project 
resulted in essential or crucial outcomes or activities fore=] 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfied this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
9 In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner would also have to establish the distinguished reputation oft~-~ 
7 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Beneficiary has judged some journal and conference 
papers and authored a few scholarly articles, the Petitioner did not establish that he is among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14285462 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the appeal. 
Subsequently, we dismissed a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 1 The matter is now before 
us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements 
of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 See In Re: 9809356 (AUG. 11, 2020). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing the appeal, we withdrew the 
Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and decided that the Petitioner did not fulfill 
any of the claimed criteria. On motion, the Petitioner requested us to reconsider our decision without 
showing how we erroneously applied law or policy. Further, while he provided additional 
documentation, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the new evidence demonstrated 
his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's current motion to reconsider does not overcome our 
prior decision. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief mirroring 
his previous motion brief In fact, besides the brief' s introductory paragraph, the current motion brief 
is identical to the prior motion brief: without any mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his 
combined motions. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of 
law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our 
decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider 
is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
As he did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior motions, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss his 
current motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed his previous motions based on the record 
before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13697723 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and subsequently dismissed a 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. We then dismissed the appeal. 1 The matter is 
now before us on a combined motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
1 See In Re: 6798659 (July 22, 2020). 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received 
a one-time achievement and that she had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
she must meet at least three. In addition, the Director dismissed the motions, determining that the 
Petitioner did not provide new facts or evidence and did not show that the Director erroneously applied 
law or policy. 
In dismissing her appeal, we determined that the Director properly dismissed the motion to reopen 
because the Petitioner did not offer new facts or evidence; instead, she provided previously submitted 
documentation. Further, we concluded that the Director properly dismissed the motion to reconsider 
because the Petitioner did not state the reasons why the Director should reconsider the decision, and 
she did not identify any erroneously application of law or policy. Moreover, we decided that the 
Petitioner did not establish her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. Further, we 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for any of the following claimed criteria: 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's combined motions do not overcome our prior 
decision dismissing her appeal. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner restates and describes the 
evidence she submitted under the one-time achievement and the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, published material, judging, original contributions, and leading or critical role. 2 
However, the Petitioner does not argue or point to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in our 
prior decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. In fact, the Petitioner does not even mention 
2 The Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not address our decision regarding the scholarly articles and high salaiy 
criteria. 
2 
our decision and address our specific conclusions, including our determinations on the Director's 
combined motion decision. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a 
matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to 
reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion 
to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, our decision 
thoroughly analyzed and explained why every piece of evidence and arguments addressed in the 
motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we 
erred in either misapplying law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
For these reasons, we will dismiss her motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner provides the following new evidence under the corresponding criteria: 
1) a certificate fromc=] dated December 8, 2011 (awards); 2) a letter from the People Management 
Association of the Phili ines dated January 3, 2006 (memberships); 3) letters froml I 
and,__ ___ ..--____ ....,dated December 28, 2012 and January 8, 2003, respectively (judging); 
5) letters from~---~ andl I dated March 11, 2017 and July 18, 2017, 
respectively (leading or critical role); and 6) 2005 Filipino income tax documentation (high salary). 
However, as the Petitioner did not submit these documents before the Director, either at the time she 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims 
and documents in our adjudication of this motion. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence 
submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of 
proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
Although the documents pre-date the filing of her initial filing, the Petitioner did not explain why she 
did not present these documents before the Director. Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence 
to determine the Beneficiary's eligibility under the applicable criteria for the first time on motion. As 
such, we will dismiss her motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal based on the record before us, 
nor did she demonstrate that her additional evidence fulfills at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15878036 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public relations professional, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A),8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that he satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, the 
record did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten crite1ia 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is currently employed as the Director of Communications, USA 
fo~ I He has nearly 20 years of experience in the media and public relations field, 
including 13 years performing in senior roles for major internationad I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence in support of six of the ten criteria, 
and the Director determined that the Petitioner met three of those evidentiary criteria, relating to 
judging, leading or critical roles, and high salary, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). The 
Director then proceeded to a final merits determination and concluded that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he has sustained national and international acclaim an dis among the small percentage 
at the very top of his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least one additional criterion, related to published 
materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media, at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(iii). He also maintains that the Director's decision failed to discuss much of the relevant 
evidence submitted in support of the petition and thus did not properly consider the record in its 
entirety when evaluating his eligibility for the benefit sought. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the 
regulatory criteria. Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence the 
Petitioner submitted in support of the published materials and other criteria, in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international acclaim, that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and that he is among 
the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3);see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 After 
evaluating the evidence in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that his 
achievements are reflective ofa "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19, 1990). 
After beginning his career in publishing and operating a public relations consulting business in the I I industry, the Petitioner has spent the last 13 years of his career in senior, public-facing 
communications and public relation roles formajorinternationall I includin§~------~J 
I l(2007to2013),I 1(2013-2015),andl l(since2015). Theevidence 
establishes that the Petitioner has held critical or leading roles with each of thesel I that 
contributed significantly to the companies' profits, image, and brand awareness, while also garnering 
the Petitioner individual acclaim and recognition as an expert in his field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner first earned international recognition in the industry for 
~-------~award-winningl tpublic relations and social media campaign 
in 2010, in which more thaQcouples competed to participate in the world's I I 
L JI I Deputy CEO and Executive Vice President for 
'~--------~Icon-firms that the Petitioner "initiated the idea and concept," and managed all 
aspects of this campaign. She notes that the campai~" arnered media attention worldwide," "quickly 
became the most covered ro-active news item in histo " and earned the airline "instant 
recognition within the communities across the 
globe." further states: .__ ______ ____. 
No otherllitiative has come close to what thel !campaign 
achieved~, [the campaign] is one of the most memorable! lindustty 
campaigns in history. The campaign was widely reco ized as exceptional, earnin a 
I IA ward for best advertising campaign from a leadin 
news website; and the title of Innovator of the Year from the r----,. _____ _J 
I !Association; and much more recognition in the,___ _ _,industry and 
beyond. 
In addition to the awards mentioned above, w._.,._.. ........................... ~1-documented in the record, the Petitioner 
and! I were nominated fo "PR of the Year Award" and I ts 
Digital Communications Awards in the category in 2011. 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. I, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
,__ ____ ~I President of the '----------,------------,,__ ___ __. which 
awarded the above-referenced "Innovator Award" to confirms that the 
Petitioner "created and led the campaign and acce ted the award on behalf of.__ ____ ____,' He 
explains that "what [ the Petitioner] did with his campaign ... was highly innovative 
and indeed ground breaking" as "the,__ ___ ~ campaign launched to the mainstream media 
worldwide and th~ I social media campaign."! I states that thel I 
invited the Petitioner personally to give a presentation of his successful strategy at its 2011 convention. 
He also credits the campaign with highlighting "the importance and relevance of thd I 
and states that "[t]he succes~ af this carooai: paved the way for otherl I brands to market 
themselves more openly to th~ _ I with a more mainstream approach." Other industry 
leaders who provided letters in support of the petition similarly discuss the influence of the campaign. 
~----_____.I and others also emphasize that the ~-------~ Campaign received 
"overwhelmingly positive media coverage worldwide" and the fact that the Petitioner, as the 
spokesperson for the campaign, was "featured extensively on TV, in radio and in print on a global 
level." The record contains ample evidence of the Petitioner's media appearances in this prominent 
spokesperson role (including an appearance on the BBC World New~ b. 
The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner himself was the featured subject of interviews in 
L------,r----'-'frofessional and trade publications such as I I and inD I ~s 
leadin agazine, in the years following the campaign. He also appeared on Good Morning 
~-____,to offer his insight as a specialist in marketing to thel_ I The Petitioner has 
demonstrated that, since relocating to the United States in 2015, he continues to be consulted by leaders 
in thL I sector who regard him as an expert and seek his insi t into initiatives aimed at 
maki~ I more inclusive. I I founder of.__ _________ ____. anl I 
communications and marketing company that represents Fortune 500 corporations, states in his letter 
that the Petitioner "has remained a leader in thel I' since the launch of thee:==] I I campaign. He states that the '"campaign has had a lasting impact on the globalc=] 
industry, even a decade later." Based on this and other evidence in the record, the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that he garnered sustained recognition in his field as a result of his work on this highly 
successful campaign fo~ I 
I former Vice President of Corporate Communications atl I states that th~ I 
~re_c_ru-it_e_d-th_e_P~etitionerto head the launch of itsl I service on the strength of his recognized 
success with thel I campaign and his reputation for creating innovative PR and media 
strategies. She explains that he had overall responsibility to launch c=Jto the worldwide media 
through a PR strategy and campaign that he devised, and emphasizes that the campaign "generated 
more than 2. 7 billion media impressions and media value of over $7 .0 million within two weeks of its 
launch." I l's successor,L~--~ states that the I I campaign "significantly 
overshadowed any other PR efforts ~~--~fshisrory." She also hi~lights 1"' the Petitioner 
initiated and spearheaded a humanitarian relief to Haiti that earned recognition as a 
finalist in the Social Good Awards' category. 
As noted
1 since 2015, the Petitioner has served in the executive role of Director of Communications, 
USA, fot1 I and he has provided evidence that he is compensated at a rate that is high 
compared to others in comparable positions...__ _______ _, Chief Communications Officer at ~---------~I states that the Petitioner was recruited to be the company's firstU.S.-based 
4 
employee, and~-·,· edia-facing spokesperson for the brand in the United States. In two 
detailed letters, highlights the Petitioner's implementation of award-winning campaijs, 
his leadership of the 's corporate social responsibility work, and his role asl _'s 
delegate in meetings and events with governors, senators, and mayors across the United States. She 
states that "[t]he U.S. is nowl~---~ts largest market by revenue and [the Petitioner] holds the 
highest management position in this market." She also emphasizes that he "has become one of the 
most sought-after and covere~ !spokespeople in the U.S." 
The supporting evidence corroborates! i's statements and demonstrates that the Petitioner 
has sustained and built on his acclaim and recognition in the field during his tenure atl I 
This evidence includes data from] I, a public relations and earned media software company 
and services provider, which indicates that the Petitioner's media mentions in 2019 ranked second 
among individuals serving in a director of communications roles forl I. I I 
President otLJ public relations firm! lstates that the Petitioner "is one of 
the key reasons behini Is monumental growth success here in the United States" and "one 
of the most prominen _ I spokespeople here in the United States. '1 I managing 
partner of independent marketing and communications firml I also comments on the 
Petitioner's status as "one of the most highly ranked spokespeople in te1ms of media appearances 
within thd I industry as a whole, a truly notew01ihy achievement given thatl I is 
much smaller than its competitors" in the U.S. market. 
.__ __ ___,I also credits the Petitioner with being "at the forefront of supp~o_rt_in~-~ 
his focus on various minorities." These efforts were recognize ........... ........_. ____ .........., ................................... .....,, 
Inclusion Award at the 20 I~ I which was c1·..=e-=a.:..:te:...::d=--b=:....L.L---~----r-----~a==.n 
online social community primarily for I iof color. '---..------.---'CEO of 
~xplains that the Petitioner has "whole-heartedly supported~_~of color acro.__ss_a_w-id_e_r_a_n-ge_. 
,__o_f-in__,itiatives" durin~e atl I including initiation of workshops and press/influencer 
trips aimed solely atL_Jinfluencers and journalists who are people of color. I lstates 
that although the Innovator Award feature~ ht is [the Petitioner's] valued efforts and 
initiatives that are at the core of this award," and "we deeply appreciate his game-changing dtersity I ~s both now and moving forward." The record reflects that the Petitioner served on the 
L_J Panel at thel 12020 event and that he continues to be fre[uently Invited to speak 
on podcasts, industry panels, and other platforms on subjects related to marketing and 
communications, based on his status as a recognized expert in the industry. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the record demonstrates that the 
Petitioner's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a 
finding that the Petitioner has achieved the required sustained national and international acclaim and 
is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(i)-(x ). He has also demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustainednational 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, 
5 
he has also established that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his 
admission will benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493399 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mountaineering and rock-climbing guide and instructor, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(IXA), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider. The Director granted the motion, in part, but affirmed the denial of the petition on the 
same grounds. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Ibe Petitioner is a roauntaineerinu and b·ekkinu rxpedition guide and the sole proprietor of□ I , in Nepal. The Petitioner maintains that he has 
"extraordinary ability in the field of Athletics -Rock Climbing" and "has made an enormous national 
acclaim in the field of Rock Climbing in Nepal." The Petitioner indicates his intention to work as a 
rock-climbing coach in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional, major trade or major media publications; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to awards and 
judging, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he satisfies the 
three additional criteria listed above. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we will not 
disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5 (h )(3 )(i). However, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that he has not satisfied the 
requirements of any additional criteria and does not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the U.S. Nepal 
Climbers Association Inc. (USNCA), the~----------------~ and the 
Nepal Mountaineering Instructor' sAssociation (NMIA ), and as the "founding member" and proprietor 
of~---------------------~ To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 1 
With respect to USN CA, the Petitione1 providld: a copy of his membership card identifying him as a 
"Life Member" of the association as of 2020; a certificaterecognizingthat "Life Membership" 
was bestowed upon him in "in grateful appreciation for his unwavering support and contribution" to 
the association; and screenshots from the USNCA website listing the Petitioner ajong the I 
association's "Life Members." The Petitioner provided a letter from USNCAI I, I I who explains that there are two categories of membership (general and life) and that "[ a ]ny 
individual who have successfully summited at least a [ QQQm ta]) mountain is eligible to apply for the 
life-time membership and the general membership." .__ __ ~_.~efers USCIS to the association's 
website (usnepalclimbers.org) for membership requirements and explains that its board of directors 
will "scrutinize an individual's profile before providing membership." He also discusses some of the 
Petitioner's achievements. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's achievements are 
noteworthy but determined that neither I l's letter nor the information provided on the 
association's website provided information indicating that "outstanding achievements" are an essential 
condition for life membership in the USN CA. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again refers to the membership program requirements found at the USN CA 
website, emphasizes the "stringent membership criteria for Life Membership," and provides a 
screenshot of the relevant page from the website. According to this infonnation, Life Membership "is 
awarded to those members who have contributed to the tourism sector throughout their professional 
career as a trekking guide," while General Membership is available to "any individual who has 
successfully summitted at least a 5000m tall mountain." To be eligible for Life Membership, 
applicants "must have guided for a minimum of 7 years, must have certification on a mountaineering 
climbing course, and must have climbed a peak above 6000m at least 4 times." 
The Petitioner has not shown that life membership in the USN CA requires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. The record reflects thatthe USN CA requires 
a certain level of professional experience as a trekking guide, an industry certification, and four 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicators Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguishedachievementsin 
origin a I research). 
3 
qualifying climbs. Here, the Petitioner does not demonstrate that possessing the stated experience is 
indicative of outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. While USNCA's 
board of directors may consider other factors when evaluating membership applications, we can only 
evaluate the association's statedmembership requirements as documented in the record. The Petitioner 
has not provided, for example, the organization's bylaws or constitution or information from the 
organization regarding its application review process or standards. The USN CA may have detennined 
that the Petitioner has outstanding achievements in the field, above and beyond the stated professional 
experience and certification membership requirements, when granting his life membership. However, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to establish USN CA requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
condition of membership for every life member admitted and he has not met that burden. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under this criterion based on his "Honorary Lifelong 
Membership" itj [ He initially submitted a ce1iificate fro~ I indicating that "[t]his honor 
recognizes his commitment demonstrated towards the programs, activities and ideas" of the 
association, but he did not provide supporting evidence demonstratingthatl !requires outstanding 
achievement as a condition for membership. The Director advised the Petitioner of this deficiency in 
a request for evidence (RFE) and allowed him the opportunity to submit additional evidence, such as 
the sections of the association's bylaws or constitution discussing the criteria for membership and the 
qualifications required for those who serve on its membership reviewing panel. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I lwho states 
that "the constitution ofl I provides three categories of membership -General, Honorary 
and Lifelong membership." He indicates that the categories have different requirements but does not 
specify what those requirements are. I lgoes on to discuss the Petitioner's "Honoraiy 
Membership" and his contributions to rock-climbing and mountaineering in Nepal. He concludes that 
"[t]herefore, as per the regulation of agency and subject to the provision of our constitution, the 
executive committee of the organization recognized [the Petitioner's] national contribution and 
decided to honor him with lifelong µi.e.m.be.fship of this association in 2019." The Director determined 
that the Petitioner's membership inl__J did not satisfy the criterion because the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence related to the membership requirements for each membership category mentioned 
id._ ___ ..... ~'s letter. The Director also observed that thel !website did not contain information 
about the general, honorary, and lifelong membership categories mentioned b~ I 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted another letter froml l who states that 'l I had 
updated its website with the classification of its members and other information." He also provided 
a screenshot from the website! I that lists the Petitioner as a "Lifelong Member (Honoraiy)" 
This evidence states that "the committee has taken this decision based on lifelong membership criteria 
stated in the organization's constitution," noting that "honorary lifelong membership" is those "who 
have shown leadership in the tourism industry of Nepal for at least 15 years" and "contributed 
significantly to sectors including rock climbing, mountaineering, trekking, coaching, hospitality and 
safari." The Director acknowledged this evidence but emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence thatl I requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition for membership, or 
evidence that the individuals who review prospective members are recognized as national or 
international experts. Thepire..c.tpr also observed that the Petitioner had not submitted the relevant 
portions of the referenced L_J constitution which would shed light on its requirements for different 
4 
levels of membership, the membership review process, and the credentials of the "executive 
committee" that considers admission of members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the above-referenced screenshot from the I I website as 
evidence that he has been recognized as an honorary lifelong member. However, he does not address 
the evidentiary deficiencies mentioned in the Director's decision on motion, such as the lack of 
evidence outlining the requirements for different levels of membership mentioned iJ i's letter 
and the lack of evidence that those who participate in the membership review process are recognized 
national or international experts in the field. Further, based on the limited information provided 
regarding the "honorary lifelong membership" category, we cannot determine that 15 years of 
experience and undefined "contributions" in the field amounts to a requirement that all members at 
this level must demonstrate outstanding achievements. 
For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies under this criterion based on his 
membership with the NMIA. He submits a letter from NMIAI I, who describes 
the Petitioner as a "key resource person" for the association and states that it has approached him to 
become one of its advisors. However, he does not state that the Petitioner was granted membership in 
NMIA or that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is. The record includes a certificate issued to the 
Petitioner by NMIA for completion of a ~Basic Mountain Navigation and Hill Walking Course" in 
2006 and evidence that he completed a "High Mountain Rescue Training" course conducted by NMIA 
in 2011, but does not document his membership in this association. 
As noted, the Petitioner also claims eli ibili under this criterion based on his status as the "founding 
member" and proprietor of~---------------------~ We agree with 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner's ownership of this private business does not qualify 
as or equate to a "membership in an association" that admits members based on their outstanding 
achievements. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner's appellate brief mentions that he "is a Charter Founder Member 
of two reputed International organizations, Kiwanis International and Rotary Club of Boudha 
(Kathmandu)." The record reflects that the Petitioner's initial evidence included documentation of his 
membership with these organizations. However, despite multiple opportunities to do so, he has not 
submitted evidence that either organization requires outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. We note that the 
international reputation of a given organization is not a relevant consideration when evaluating 
whether his membership satisfies this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
5 
The Petitioner submitted 18 articles from various publications in Nepal, including Gorkhapatra, 
Annapurna Post, Nepal Samacha,patra, Taja Khabar Weekly, Nami Weekly, Rastra Vani magazine, 
Madhyanha,Naya Patrika and Guide Nepal. 2 Not every submitted article meets all required elements 
of the regulation at 8 C,F,R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), as some do not identify the author. An article titled I I' published by Ghorkhapatra inO2019, mentions the Petitioner and his 
company, butis not about him. However, upon review, many of the submitted aiiicles are about the 
Petitioner, relate to his work in the mountaineering and rock-climbing field, and include the required 
title, date and author of the material and an English translation. 
Therefore, to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that these articles were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner's evidence should 
establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show who the intended audience of the publication is. 3 
The initial evidence included a letter from a representative of Press Council Nepal who certifies the 
"grading" of the publications in which the articles were published. Specifically, the representative 
states thatAnnapurna Post, Gorkhapatra, Naya Patrika, and Nepal Samacharpatra are daily "National 
'A' Grade" publications, Madhyanha and Taja Khabar are "National 'B' Grade" publications and 
Nami is a "Local 'C' Grade." However, the letter did not provide an explanation of this publication 
grading system, nor did the Petitioner submit any additional evidence explaining the system. The 
Petitioner has emphasized that Press Council Nepal "is the regulating agency of media in Nepal," and 
"prescribes and classifies the 'Category of News Papers' based on the prescribed rules." However, 
these "prescribed rules" are not explained or documented. Without additional context and information 
regarding the relative circulation statistics of these publications, we cannot conclude, for example, that 
all 'A' Grade publications would automatically qualify as major media. 
The Petitioner subsequently submitted letters from the publishers of eight newspapers, but this 
additional evidence was not sufficient to demonstrate that any of these publications qualifies as major 
media. 4 For example, a letter from the editor-in-chief of Gorkhapatra states that it is the oldest 
national daily newspaper in Nepal and mentions the topics covered by the paper. The editor of the 
Annapurna Post describes the publication as "a national daily newspaper" and confirms that it has 
published articles about the Petitioner. The news chief of Nepal Samcharpatra mentions that the 
newspaper has a circulation of 60,000 copies daily but there is no context for us to evaluate how this 
circulation figure compares to that of other newspapers in Nepal. The editor of Madhyanha National 
Daily states that this publication "ranks within top 25 among the daily newspaper," but is not 
accompanied by independent evidence of newspaper rankings within Nepal, and it is unclear whether 
the referenced rankings were based on circulation or some other measure. The Petitioner has not 
shown that he meets this criterion based on the submitted newspaper articles. 
As noted the Petitioner also submitted an exce t from the 2019 issue of Guide Ne al a 
It is unclear '------------------------------------' 
2 The referenced articles are related to the Petitioner's work in the field ofmountaineeringandrockclimbing. He submitted 
eight additional articles which discuss his involvement in social welfare activities in Nepal. 
3 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 7. 
4 While we discuss only a sampling of these letters here, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
whether the article, which does not identify an author as required by the regulation, is an article about 
the Petitioner authored by the publisher, or whether it is part of the advertisement for the Petitioner's 
company. The Petitioner also did not provide evidence demonstrating the intended audience or 
circulation figures for Guide Nepal. Although it isl I, an association in the 
Petitioner's field, the fact that it is published in the English language suggests that its intended 
audience may be foreign visitors in Nepal, rather than professionals in the field. The Petitioner did 
not establish that Guide Nepal is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, and the record reflects that the 
Director reached this conclusion based solely on the Petitioner's initial evidence. We will withdraw 
the Director's determination that this criterion has been met. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included: 
• All2019 letter from~----------~ who states: "[The Petitioner] has w~s member of jury for rock climbing competition organized byl I on D 
I 1201 0." 
• Al I 2008 letter froml,_ ____ ___,INMIA, who states: "[The Petitioner] has 
been appointed imbing Training Competition organized 
by [NMIA] fro 2008." 
• An I I 2019 letter from 
who states that the Petitioner 
participated as a jury member of a "talk show about potential trek and climbing destination in 
lower Everest region and poetry competition." He indicates that the talk show was part of the 
I I organized by I I 
The Petitioner also provided two photographs that depict him among groups of unidentified people 
with the handwritten captions: "Petitioner performingjury member in the competition" and "Petitioner 
as a jury member in the competition." 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide evidence corroborating the letters from these organizations, such 
as documentation detailing his responsibilities as a jury member for the referenced rock-climbing 
competitions or any other evidence regarding these competitions and how they were judged. Without 
this evidence, we cannot determine that his role as a "member of jury" involvingjudging the work of 
others in his field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientifzc, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions o_f major signifzcance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
7 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner documented his accomplishments as a mountaineering 
guide and tourism entrepreneur and acknowledged evidence that he has constructed rock-climbing 
routes and promoted rock climbing tourism in Nepal. The Director noted that such achievements are 
not irrelevant, but he also emphasized the Petitioner's intention to work in the field of coaching and 
concluded that the Petitioner had not provided evidence demonstrating that he had made original 
contributions of major significance relevant to training or coaching rock climbers. He observed, for 
example, that the Petitioner did not establish that he had developed "original coaching techniques that 
had been widely adopted throughout the sport of rock climbing or significantly influenced rock 
climbing competitors and instructors." 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the newly submitted letter froml lofNMIA 
demonstrates "his outstanding original contributions and continued engagement as an expe1i coach in 
the field of mountaineering and rock climbing. "I I indicates that the Petitioner has been "a 
key resource person" who helped design NMIA' s courses in mountaineering, climbing, rock-climbing, 
mountain rescue and mountain navigation. He states that the Petitioner's "outstanding original 
contributions" in the area of coaching and training include: (1) design, development and 
implementation of NMIA's Basic and High Mountain Rescue Training Program; (2) design, 
development and installation of"the Night Rock Climbing"; (3) design, development and installation 
of 19 rock climbing venues and routes in Nepal; (4) design and development of the NMIA Instructors 
Selection process; and design and development of the rock-climbing course syllabus and course. 
The Petitioner also submits supplemental evidence, primarily consisting of notices announcing 
NMIA's training courses in the above-referenced areas. However, the record does not contain further 
evidence of his participation in creating these courses and we note that the Petitioner did not previously 
claim eligibility under this criterion based on his development of training courses, techniques or 
materials on behalf of NMIA. The record does not support a determination that the Petitioner has 
developed original training techniques that have widely impacted or influenced his field. 
Prior to submitting this new evidence on appeal, the Petitioner had consistently maintained that his 
major contribution to his field is "initiating the concept of Rock Climbing in Nepal." Specifically, he 
emphasized the importance of rock climbing as an essential skill for those participating in advanced 
mountaineering expeditions and stated that he "opened 19 rock climbing routes in Nepal where a 
climber [can] get trained before going to the mountain." The testimonial evidence in the record, as 
well as his awards and published materials about him, demonstrate that he received some recognition 
for undertaking the opening of these climbing routes in 2018 and 2019. 
5 Sec USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although funded and published 
work maybe "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 
For example, a letter frotJ O I of Iceland Trekking and Expedition Pvt. Ltd 
states that the Petitioner is "one of the initiator[ s] to work in rock climbing sector ofN epal" and states 
that "the rock climbing spot initiated by him is now being used fortrainingpurposes like NMA [Nepal 
Mountaineering Association], and [NMIA]." I lstates that the Petitioner "initiated a Rock 
Climbing in Nepal which is an essential component for a mountaineering professional before going to 
climb high mountains." He explains that "[t]raining on rock climbing not only helps climbers to 
clim[b] the mountain successfully, but also helps for the rescue of the climbers in case they are in 
troubles during expedition or trekking. "I I anl I I O J states that the Petitioner has made an "extraordinary contribution in the field of tourism in 
Nepal," noting that "despite the huge scope of the tourism in Nepal, the area of rock climbing was not 
open professionally for sport or as a main profession of tourism." 
Although the letters praise the Petitioner for his efforts to expand the availability of rock-climbing 
courses in Nepal and explain the benefits of rock climbing training, they do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining how his contributions have been both original and of major 
significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
The Petitioner also submitted several news a er articles that mention his role in the construction and 
enhancement of roe -Fi=m=b'-"i=n-=--"r"""o""'u-'-te=s'-1=·nc.L.- ___ ---'-"-N"""'a""'t"""io'""n=a=l'""'P""'a=r"',k. A September 2018 article from 
A notes that.__ _______ _. 
L...---------------------~ noting that"[ o ]nly some routes built up by 
foreigners were used for climbing." The aiiicle mentions that '---------------~ 
routes for rock climbing were started for ex ansion in the investment of private sector'' 
and mentions the Petitioner's work 'Another 2018 article 
from Anna urna Post titled mentions that 
'-----' 'noting that "guides are united to make hub of rock climbing in each district so that it will 
contribute for the development of tourism sector." The article mentions that, in Nepal, rock climbing 
is available in several locations (and not only thel 1 I National Park project in which the 
Petitioner was involved) and highlights that the "private sector has been assisting in developing, 
exploring and expanding rock climbing routes." 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner has been a key figure among more widespread private sector 
efforts to expand the availability of rock climbing areas in Nepal's tourism industry. While these 
efforts may be consideredrelatively novel in Nepal, it is unclear how the construction ofrock climbing 
routes by traditional means is "original" or how the Petitioner's work has already influenced or 
impacted the field in a way that is of major significance. Further, while the Petitioner has received 
recognition for his recent development and enhancement of rock-climbing routes inl I 
National Park, the record lacks support for claims that he was the sole initiator or originator of rock­
climbing in Nepal. 
6 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 8-9. 
7Id.at9. 
9 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15738101 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sports journalist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for several television stations inl I includin~ [ I I and I I She hosted the weekly programl , J reported on international sporting 
events, and wrote online articles for I IH:er Y ouTube channel features videos of sports tourism (in 
which she visits various international locales and participates in local sports activities). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iii) and (ix). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four other criteria, numbered (v), (vii), (viii), and (x). The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (vi), and 
therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (iii) and (ix). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner asserts that various accomplishments meet this criterion. An official ofl I 
calls the Petitioner "one of the first women inl ~o break through the glass ceiling that exists in sports 
reporting in the country." Setting aside the lack of documentary support for this assertion, her employer's 
decision to hire her is not an original contribution that the Petitioner made. (We note that promotional 
materials in the record show that, when the Petitioner joined.__ ______ _.two of the three existing 
co-hosts were female.) 
The Petitioner asserts that she was the first female journalist hired byl I i~ I but an 
executive with that company indicates that the network hired the Petitioner "when [the network] 
launched." The Petitioner has not established that being part of a new network's initial hiring wave is an 
original contribution, nor has the Petitioner explained how it is of major significance. Media coverage of 
the hiring, documented in the record, did not highlight the Petitioner's gender as a significant part of the 
story. 
Letters from employers and others contain general praise for the Petitioner, but do not identify specific 
original contributions or explain their significance. For instance, the sports and news manager at I I states that the Petitioner "is truly a star of I I in I I as she not only has 
incredible journalistic skills, which allow her to write complex journalistic pieces, but also the charisma 
and on-camera personality that attracts the public and keeps audiences engaged." General assessments 
of the Petitioner's skill and appeal to audiences do not satisfy the requirements spelled out in the 
regulations. 
The Petitioner's creation of a television documentary,! constitutes an original 
contribution, but the burden is on the Petitioner to establish its ma/or significance. The Petitioner asserts 
thatl ~s "the first documentary I in the history of1 I television." 
This statement attests to the film's originality, but does not establish its major significance. AD 
executive calls the documentary "very successful," but does not elaborate. The record does not establish 
the documentary's performance relative to similar programming. 
The Petitioner has documented an active and high-level career in sports journalism, but has not established 
the major significance of her original contributions. 
Evidence o_f the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
As evidence of qualifying display, the Petitioner submits screen captures from her television appearances; 
an appearance on a talk show; and dancing in a competitive television program. Talk show appearances 
and competitive dancing do not amount to work in the Petitioner's field. 
3 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's television appearances as a reporter did not constitute display 
in artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner observes that the words "display" and "art" 
have broad meanings, and the Petitioner asserts that television is an "artistic medium" and that 
'journalism ... [is] usually included within the Liberal Arts curriculum." It does not follow, however, 
that the phrase "artistic exhibitions or showcases" applies broadly to disciplines outside the fine arts, or 
reasonably applies to every usage of the term "art." Television programming can be artistic in nature, but 
not every television broadcast is an artistic exhibition or showcase. For example, a news broadcast may 
include footage from a security camera, which was not captured with any artistic intent. 
The purpose of sports journalism is not to provide an "artistic exhibition or showcase" to "display" the 
work of reporters, but rather to inform viewers about sports-related matters. The role of a sports journalist 
is to serve as a conduit to provide that information, even if some reporters have distinctive traits such as 
an animated style of delivery, or clever turns of phrase. 
The Petitioner has not established that her career involves display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion because she was the anchor fo~ I 
a weekly srorts Pf ogram od I The Petitioner states that this program was "the leading sports 
show" on s "second largest network." The record corroborates I ts distilguished I 
reputation as a major television network. The network's sports and news manager calls I I "one of the most important! I television sports shows." Letters written specifically 
to support the petition refer to the Petitioner as the anchor or central figure of the show, but media 
coverage of the Petitioner's hiring does not share this characterization, indicating instead that she 
joined a team of three other reporters who were already working on the show. 
~---~Is production director asserts that the Petitioner's role "was key to the huge success of the 
show and our impressive ratings," but the Petitioner does not provide sufficient data to show that the 
show's ratings improved after she joined the show ( or declined after she left). Without such data, the 
record does not objectively support the claim that the Petitioner was responsible for the show's ratings 
performance. 
An official ofl I states that the Petitioner "writes a weekly column covering sports 
tourism" forl I This official praises the Petitioner's "excellent reporting" and "unique, 
uplifting wa of communicatin with the audience," but does not explain how her role as a columnist 
is critical to as an organization. The record does not show how many writers work 
for .__ __ .ut promotional materials identify more than 20 bloggers (not including the Petitioner). 
The materials do not specify the distinction, if any, between columnists and bloggers. The record 
establishes the distinguished reputation o±1 I but it does not show that the Petitioner 
performed in a critical role for the organization. 
As shown above, the record establishes the Petitioner's involvement in high-profile sports journalism, 
but does not show that her role was critical for the publishers or broadcasters that employed her. 
4 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts that the wording of the regulatory criterion is becoming "obsolete in our current 
digital world," and that television ratings should be considered. A petitioner may submit comparable 
evidence when the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). Here, the Petitioner does not specifically invoke the "comparable evidence" 
provision. The regulations, in their published form, are binding in this proceeding; the Petitioner has no 
right or privilege to declare those regulations "obsolete" and substitute a new standard more favorable to 
her interests. 
Ratings are a relevant consideration when dealing with television personalities, and received some degree 
of discussion above, but further analysis of ratings would be more appropriate in the context of a final 
merits determination once a given individual has met the initial evidentiary threshold at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Here, the Petitioner has not cleared that threshold, and therefore a more detailed discussion 
of television ratings would not affect the outcome of the proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not met the regulatory requirements under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). By the same reasoning, employment with a major television network is not 
presumptive evidence of eligibility. Here, the Petitioner has established past employment with 
prominent networks, but has not provided a sufficient basis for comparison to show that she is among 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(~ 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We note that the record indicates that the Petitioner leftl....,....__J 
I I in 2018, and does not indicate that she has maintained a high profile since that time, as 
required to demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13011369 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a beauty products company, seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability in the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the requested 
classification, it did not establish that she had sustained national or international acclaim and was one 
of the small percentage of business executives at the top of the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Beneficiary served as thel I President for the Petitioner's! I 
brand of cosmetics. She was previously employed by thel !organization an~._ _____ _.I 
and has held managerial and executive positions with these companies for 20 years. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met the 
requisite three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her leading role 
for organizations with a distinguished reputation, published material about her and her work in 
professional, major trade or other major media, and a high salary relative to others in her field. Upon 
review of the evidence, we agree with the Director's decision regarding the first two of these criteria, 
but withdraw his conclusion concerning the Beneficiary's salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets two additional evidentiary criteria 
relating to her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards in her field, and 
original contributions of major significance to the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that she does not meet the initial evidence requirement for this classification, and does 
not qualify as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that the individual has received a 
prize or award, that the prize or award was granted based upon excellence in the individual's field of 
endeavor, and that the prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized within the field. Here, 
the Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary led efforts to launch and market, and in some 
2 
cases develop, cosmetics products which were later selected for awards based upon their rerformance. 
These awards include the Allure magazine I t and I awards and 
Cosmetics Magazine 1 I Awards," which were received by products issued by the 
Petitioner and by the Beneficiary's previous employer,! I In addition, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that its l I advertising campaign was a finalist in the 11th Annual I I Awards" 
in the I I category. 
However, as noted by the Director, the Beneficiary is not named as a recipient and did not personally 
receive any of these awards, as is required by the plain language of this criterion. The focus in this 
criterion is on the individual's receipt of awards or prizes, as opposed to his or hers employer's receipt 
of award or prizes. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the awards "do not bear [the Beneficiary's] 
name," but focuses instead upon her contribution to these products' recognition. Letters from the 
Beneficiary's direct superiors in both organizations state that due to her leadership in the areas of 
marketing ( and in some cases product development), the recognition afforded to the products through 
these awards can be attributed to her. But it is the awarding organizations which determine upon 
whom or what recognition is bestowed, and in this case they chose to name the products and the 
companies which sell them. In addition, the evidence indicates that the awards issued by the 
magazines were based upon an appraisal of the relative performance of the cosmetics and related 
products, not upon the business acumen of those who developed and marketed them. They are not, 
therefore, awards for excellence in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. 
Further, even ifwe were to accept the Petitioner's assertion that the evidence of the Beneficiary's work 
related to the recognized products is sufficient under this criterion, which we do not, we note that at 
least some of the recognition asserted to be attributable to her did not come in the form of prizes or 
awards as re uired. Exam les of this include the a earance ofl I sold b~ I in a Vogue 
article titled ~------------~------ as well as the previously mentioned 
marketing campaign which was a finalist for a ~----~" This evidence does not demonstrate 
that either the Beneficiary or her employer were the recipient of a prize or award. 
Based upon the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
is the recipient of prizes or awards for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to successfully demonstrate that an individual meets this criterion, a petitioner must establish 
that he or she has made contributions to the field that are both original and of major significance. 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the individual's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. Page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Beneficiary's accomplishments "have had a major impact on 
product development and marketing in the global beauty industry," and refers to her leadership of 
projects to develop and launch beauty products which were recognized by the industry awards 
mentioned above. It begins by highlighting her leadership of the development o~ I I I and I I as examples of contributions to the field ' ess, 
noting that these products represente~ "grouldbreaking innovations" such as a,....m_a.......,_n_e_t_ic_._ __ ....____, 
"that has since been copied by othe companies." Also mentioned i ________ ___,. 
which the Petitioner states is "one of the best-selling franchises in the world." 
In support of these assertions, the Petitioner refers to reference letters from executives at I.__ __ _. I I Executive Vice President of Human Relations at the company, confirms the 
Beneficiary's employment in progressively more senior managerial and executive positions from 1999 
to 2016, and notes that during this time she "defined and implemented marketing, media, and 
promotional strategies" and "was involved in the creation and launched numerous highly successful 
and groundbreaking products." He confirms that these included the three products mentioned above 
as well as others, and goes into greater detail regarding the first two. I I describes I I I I as "game-changing," having "innovative features," and "one of the leading products in its 
category to this day," and notes that I I came in "a novr-11 1 J package with a 
magnetic opening system, which was the first of its kind in the market." Although this letter confirms 
that the Beneficiary led the development of products which are said to have novel features, at least 
one of which remains a sales success for her former employer, it does not explain how the 
Beneficiary's work in these examples was of such wide impact or influence on her field that they were 
of majorl significjnce. For example, while the Petitioner asserts on appeal that other companies 
followed in offering magnetic I I cases,I I does not make this claim in his 
letter, nor does the record include documentary evidence to support this claim or demonstrate how it 
was of major significance to the field. In addition, while the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding 
an Allure I I' award received for the~----.......,...--,-____,, the webpage in the record 
which announces the award and describes this product makes no mention of its magnetic case. 
Similarly, the Petitioner names products for which the Beneficiary has led the development and 
marketing under its employment, also including! I products. I I the 
Petitioner's Chief Marketing Officer and also former colleague of the Beneficiary's atl I 
confirms that "several new products" have been introduced during her tenure as Global Brand 
President, some of which "were recognized by the industry for their innovation," including the Allure 
.__ _____ ____. recognition in 2019. However, as noted above, the evidence of these awards 
indicates that they were granted based upon home testing of the products' performance by the 
magazine's staff, not upon any judgment of innovation or excellence in product development. 
Although the evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary has successfully led the development of 
products for her current and former employers, it does not show that her work has led other executives 
in the cosmetics industry or elsewhere to change the way they conduct their work, or has otherwise 
impacted the area of product development in her overall field. The commercial or critical success of 
the products may have led to improved sales for her employers, but the evidence shows that that impact 
was felt by those employers only, not the broader field. 
4 
Turning to the Beneficiary's contributions related to the marketing of cosmetics during her long career 
in the industry, the Petitioner first refers on appeal to the reference letter froml I a former 
colleague of the Beneficiary's atl I He describes product launch marketing campaigns for two 
I lproducts, both of which featured well-known actresses.I I then explains that the 
Beneficiary was responsible for relaunching thel f website for the United States, "which was 
so successful that it quickly became the standard reference for all I I business units worldwide." 
He states that she "established standards, methods, and processes that at still in use atl I today." 
We note that this same paragraph regarding the Beneficiary's work on thel !website appears 
inl l's letter as well However, neither lett~tes that these processes or methods 
have been applied outside of the! Jbrand, or thel___J organization, to have an impact on 
the broader field. 
I l's letter touches on other aspects of the Beneficiary's marketing efforts while arj [ 
stating that "she was responsible for redefininr the brand equity forl I in the United States," 
and that her strategy "became the platform for_ I globally." It is unclear if he is referring to 
the website relaunching as referenced in the other two letters, as he does not expand upon what was 
involved in redefining! Is "brand equity," butl I later notes that the Beneficiary 
"accelerated the company's digital presence, achieving double-digit growth in e-commerce ... " As 
with the previously mentioned letters, there is no indication in this letter that her work in leading 
marketing campaigns forl ~ignificantly impacted the field beyond her employer. 
The Petitioner also asserts that media articles featuring quotes from the Beneficiary, as well as an 
interview of her which appeared on the website of Women's Wear Daily (WWD) confirm her 
"preeminence" and "elite status." Some of these articles were published during her time with 
I, such as a 2013 article in the New York Times which includes a statement from her regarding 
~th_e_c_o_m~pany's effort in targetin9 the I I market. Another article appearing in the same 
newspaper a year earlier is about a[ lcommercial featuring thel I 
and includes a short quote from the Beneficiary. While these articles confirm her position as a 
marketing executive fo~ land its I I brand, and thus an expert in cosmetics marketing 
who is authorized to speak on the brand's behalf: they do not focus on any contributions made by the 
Beneficiary to the cosmetics industry or the field of business. 
Other articles werel publisled since the Beneficiary began working for the Petitioner. The WWD 
interview discusses 's I ~ campaign, noting it as a departure for the company, and 
allows the Beneficiary to discuss her efforts to reverse the company's sales struggles and compete 
with "indie" brands. This article also serves to confirm the Beneficiary's role as an executive and 
provides more detail about certain marketing projects she has undertaken. Another article, posted on 
the website~--------~ is about brands conducting marketing campaigns at live events, 
and dedicates several paragraphs to the Beneficiary's description of the Petitioner's efforts in this vein. 
Although both of these articles indicate that she led the Petitioner in marketing campaigns that were 
novel for the company and brand, they do not indicate that these campaigns represented contributions 
to the overall field which influenced other companies to take a similar approach. 
Another way in which the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary has made a contribution of jajorl 
significance to the field of business relates to her work in internal processes for the company. I !writes that she was able to reduce development time for new products from 18 to 24 months 
5 
down to 6 to 18 months. The Beneficiary also discusses this change in the WWD article, noting that 
accelerating this timeline is a way in which the Petitioner is changing its business model to compete 
with newer cosmetics companies. As with the discussions above, this evidence does not show that the 
changes made to the Petitioner's internal processes are contributions which have influenced others in 
the industry or broader field of business to implement within their organizations. 
Upon consideration of all of the evidence pertaining to this criterion, some of which has been 
specifically mentioned in the analysis above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in her field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantZv high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of its claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter regarding the Beneficiary's 
promotion in 2018, her IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2018 and 2019, earnings statements for 2019, 
and information about the salaries of Chief Executive Officers and Chief Sustainability Officers in I I during the relevant period. The letter states that as President ofl I the 
Beneficiary earns $600,000 in salary, a 100% bonus, and an award under the company's Long Term 
Incentive Plan ofup to $1,000,000. The Forms W-2 for 2018 and 2019 show that in those years, she 
earned "wages, tips and other compensation" of $865,602 and $1,099, 303, respectively. Also, the 
earnings statement for January 31, 2020 shows that at that point her base salary was $662,000, and 
that other compensation included a car allowance, life insurance and financial consulting. 
For purposes of comparison, the salary data from the United States Department of Labor's Online 
Wage Library (OWL) does not provide values for wage levels 1 through 4, but states that such 
information is not provided "due to limitations in the OES data." It further notes that the wage data 
may be at least $208,000 per year, but does provide a "Mean Wage (H-2B)" of $256,776 per year. 
Although we acknowledge that the Beneficiary's base salary of $600,000 in 2018, and $662,000 in 
2020, exceeds the mean salary reported, the information provided in the OWL is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that her salary is high in comparison to the salary of other executives i~ I or 
that her total remuneration is significantly high in comparison to those executives. 
First, since the OWL does not take indicate that compensation other than base salary is included in the 
figures provided, we can only consider the Beneficiary's base salary as shown in the promotion letter 
and earnings statements when making this comparison. Second, the mean wage by itself does not 
provide a sufficient basis to determine whether the Beneficiary's salary is high, as it does not provide 
a complete picture of the range of executive salaries which are above average, high, and near the top 
echelon. Therefore, the record does not include evidence that demonstrates that the Beneficiary's 
salary is high in comparison to other executive, and we withdraw the Director's conclusion that she 
meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Classification 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
6 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgome,y, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary has the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13 1415 05 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a molecular and cellular biologist and a postdoctoral fellow at the University of 
.__ ________ _, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinazy 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal after reaching the same 
conclusion. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentaty 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), includingjudging the work of others in her 
field at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
We also addressed the Petitioner's claims that she satisfied the criteria relating to published materials 
about her, original contributions of major significance, and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v) and (viii), respectively, and determined that the evidence did not satisfy any of 
these criteria. 
Because we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements, we did not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596, F.3d at 1119-20. 
Neve1iheless, we advised that after a review of the record in the aggregate, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she has earned sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, as required by section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and 
be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5 ( a )(2). Here, the Petitioner 
does not raise new facts in her brief and the only new evidence she submits on motion is her updated 
Google Scholar profile dated July 2020, approximately 16 months after the filing of the petition. 
Although a motion to reopen allows the submissionofnew evidence related to eligibility, the Petitioner 
must still establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from 
the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, 1he 
updated Google Scholar profile does not present new facts that warrant the reopening of this matter 
and the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider focuses on our determination that she did not satisfy the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 1 She asserts that we failed to apply the 
preponderance of the evidence standard in our adjudication, misapplied and misconstrued case law, 
and failed to consider all of the relevant evidence submitted in support of the criterion. 
1. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
The Petitioner maintains that she has made several original contributions of major significance in her 
field as evidenced by her publication in top ranked journals, citations to her published work, 
testimonial letters from experts in her field, and her co-invention of a patented! I 
support system. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field.2 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughoutthe fie Id, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Before proceeding to a discussion of why we are granting this criterion in this motion, we will address 
the Petitioner's claim that we inappropriately disregarded or gave less weight to expert testimony in 
the record based on an observation that the expert opinion letters, "although not identically worded" 
contain similarities "consistent with common origin or at least significant coaching in the 
composition." We noted that "USCIS may give letters diminished weight when there is evidence of 
common origin," citingSurinderSingh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse 
credibility determination in asylum proceedings based in paii on the similarity of the affidavits). The 
Petitioner maintains that the Second Circuit's holding in Singh does not support giving "diminished 
1 Although herbriefonmotion primarily focusesonheroriginalcontributions, the Petitioner states that she is not conceding 
the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and requests that we review the previous arguments 
submitted on appeal. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published w01k may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficientto establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
weight" to uncontradicted expert testimony in an immigrant petition proceeding and was thus 
inappropriately cited. The Petitioner also emphasizes that there are valid reasons for such letters to 
have similarities in format, organization, and phrasing and that such similarities did not provide 
sufficient basis to doubt the credibility or probative value of the letters. 
Our discussion of the expert testimony in the appellate decision reflects that we did in fact give 
significant evidentiary weight to the submitted testimonial letters. For example, we began our analysis 
of the original contributions criterion with a discussion of the substantive content of this evidence and 
~orated quotations from the letters o_._.._ ________ l l I I 
L__J andl I We acknowledged that their letters were highly specific in describing the 
technical aspects of the Petitioner's original scientific research. However, we determined that the 
letters did not satisfy the Petitioner's burden to show the major significance of her contributions 
because they either did not elaborate with similar specificity on the impact or influence of herresearch 
in the field, or because, in the case of I ts letter, they focused on "pending research with the 
not-yet-fulfilled potential to have an impact on medical research and treatment." Accordingly, we 
concluded that "the letters do not adequately explain how the Petitioner's specific contributions are of 
major significance." We also stated: 
We do not question the competence of the various individuals to attest to technical 
details of the Petitioner's work. But it cannot suffice to describe that work and then 
assert that it is of major significance, either with no elaboration or with the contention 
that it will eventually lead to new treatments or methods that have yet to be discovered. 
Based on the foregoing, our analysis does not reflect that we gave "diminished weight" to the expert 
testimony and our conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion did not hinge on a 
determination that the letters had a "common origin." That discussion, and the supporting citation to 
Singh, were intended to address the Petitioner's claim that the Director's initial decision had 
misapplied Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 (Comm'r 1988), by seemingly disregarding the 
Petitioner's expert opinion letters, and had "cited no basis for giving the letters diminished weight." 
After consideration of the Petitioner's explanation on motion and fmiher review of the expert 
testimonial letters, we agree with the Petitioner that any perceived similarities in those letters did not 
warrant a determination that the letters had a '·common origin" or the reference to Singh. Further, we 
affirm that we do not have reason to doubt the credibility of the individuals who provided letters in 
support of this petition. 
The Petitioner also argues that we erred in our evaluation of the original contributions criterion by 
overlooking or failing to address evidence that corroborates the expert opinion testimony, emphasizing 
that she submitted more than sufficient documentation to meet the re onderance of the evidence 
standard. She s ecificall hi li ts her article ~------.-------~-------' published in Molecular Cell in 2012 and her 
development of a~-----~ support system (which resulted in a publication in Biotechnology 
and Bioengineering and a Chinese patent) as her "two most important works." 
With respect to the Chinese patent for a 1 f support system and combined type liquid 
storage tank," we determined that the issuance of a patent attests to the invention's originality but not 
4 
to its significance. We observed that the record did not contain evidence that the patented invention 
is "in use or in commercial production" and concluded that there was "no documentary evidence to 
establish that her role in the invention constitutes a contribution of major significance." On appeaL 
the Petitioner emphasizes that she submitted a letter from an executive of a Chinese company which 
acknowledges thr the 1atent "was being used and saving lives, and that company was gearing up for 
production ofhe upport systems to be sold on the market." 
The record reflects that, in res onse to a re uest for evidence RFE , the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter, attributed toL_ __ .r-----, _________ _J, certifying that, in 2011, this 
company purchased the patent fro~~,._ __ ____,University. According to the letter, "[t]he patent is now 
being optimized for production and commercially developed for clinical applications." The letter 
further states that the patented technology, "improves the substance exchange efficiency and the 
treatment effect of~ I support system," "is imperative in advancing new treatments 
for patients," and is "financially significant"to the company. We disagree thatthis briefletterprovides 
sufficient information to document that the patented technology was already being used to treat 
patients. Rather, it indicates that the invention is still being "developed for clinical applications." The 
letter is undated and is not accompanied by evidence that the patented invention was in use at the time 
of filing. 
We acknowledge thatj lo~ !university describes the Petitioner's research 
related to the patent in his letter. He states that it was published in Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 
"one of the top journals in the bioengineering field" and had been cited 3 8 times. However, he does 
not further discuss the impact or the influence of the published research, mention the patent assijed 
tol !University or the purchase of that patent byl O _ or 
otherwise provide support for the Petitioner's claim that the patented technology is "being used and 
saving lives." 
While the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion based on her patent, we 
conclude, based on her arguments on motion, that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish that 
she meets this criterion based on the research she published in Molecular Cell in 2012. The Petitioner 
maintains that we did not consider all testimonial evidence that discusses this work and her 
contributions to the study, evidence demonstrating that this is the Petitioner's most cited work, and 
evidence that other researchers have relied on and built upon this research. Further, the record contains 
evidence that the Petitioner's discovery and resulting Molecular Cell aiiicle were reported by U.S. 
science news publications including Science Signaling and Science Daily, as well as in Chinese media 
outlets. When considered collectively, the Petitioner has provided sufficient detail to establish, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the nature and significance of her contribution to this research. 
Because the Petitioner has now demonstrated that she satisfies three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
2. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
5 
I that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor , and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received her bachelor's degree atc=J University of Science 
and Technology, her master's degree in biochejistry anl molecular biology froml I University 
and her doctorate degree in internal medicine at University in 2014. She provided evidence 
that she received several academic honors and scholarships from these institutions , as well as a national 
scholarship for graduate students awarded by China's Ministry of Education. The Petitioner 
completed her first postdoctoral fellowship at the Cancer Biology Department of City of Hope I ! in Califomi~een 2014 and 2017. As of the date of filing, she had been, 
employed as a postdoctoral fellow aL._J since 2018 in the Department of Molecular Biology and 
Chemisj, where her research was focused onl I 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has provided evidence that she has judged the work of others 
through the peerreview process, authored scholarly articles, and made original scientific contributions 
in her field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinmy 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 5 96 F. 3d at 1121-22. 4 Participation in 
the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has the sustained 
national or international acclaim required for this classification . The record reflects that, as of the date 
of filing, the Petitioner had completed 13 manuscript reviews for Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy, 
as well as 8 reviews for Cancer Letters, and 7 reviews for Nutrients, with the earliest review completed 
in April 2018. The Petitioner also submitted a "Peer Review Summary" prepared by Publons 
(publons.com) stating that her 28 reviews placed her "in the 91 st percentile for verified review 
contributions on Publons up until February 2019."5 
However, the "Peer Review Summary" from Publons.com does not provide enough infonnation to 
substantiate the Petitioner's claim that her number of completed manuscript reviews places her among 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.l ,supra, at 4 (statingthatUSCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expeitise for the immigrant classification) . 
4 See also Id. at 13 (stating that an individual's participation as a judge should be evaluated to determine whether it was 
indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided an updated summary from Pub Ions indicating that she had 
performed! I July 2019, "placing in the 94th percentile for verified review 
contributions on Publons." 
6 
the small percentage at the very top of her field; it does not indicate how Publons derives its rankings, 
whether its statistics are based on self-reported information rather than derived from an impartial 
source, and how its statistics relate to the field as a whole. For these reasons, the reports from Publons 
do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's participation in the peer review process sets her apart from 
others in her field. 
Based the evidence submitted , we can conclude that three scientific journals have frequently invited 
her to review articles in the 18 months preceding the filing of the petition and continue to do so. The 
record does not reflect, however, that this recent experience reflects a consistent history of 
participating as a peer reviewer that would contribute to a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
Further, the evidence does not document , for example, the selection criteria used by the journals to 
identify potential peer reviewers or otherwise reflect that invitations to review manuscripts for 
Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy, Cancer Letters, or Nutrients are only issued to top researchers 
who have achieved national or international acclaim. The record contains little information regarding 
these journals, such as their relative ranking among journals in the Petitioner's field. Overall, while 
we acknowledge the significant volume of recent requests the Petitioner has received to review 
manuscripts for three journals, the evidence does not establish that the scope of these peer review 
activities requires or reflects acclaim in the field, that it has resulted in her sustained acclaim, or that 
the nature of the peer review work she has performed to date is indicative of her placement among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . 
Likewise, publication of scientific research alone does not place a researcher at the very top of the 
field. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided her Google Scholar profile reflecting that she had 
published 20 articles in professional journals and conference proceedings between 2009 and 2019, 15 
of which had been cited by others. In support of her claim that her publication record is indicative of 
her placement at the top of the field, the Petitioner places particular emphasis on the ranking or impact 
factor of certain journals that published her work, her cumulative number of citations, and the number 
of citations garnered by some of her individual publications. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has published articles in Nature and Cell publications, including 
Nature Cell Biology, Nature Communications, Molecular Cell and Cell Reports, as well as in other 
highly ranked publications. 6 Publication in a highly ranked journal in-and-of-itself, however, does not 
indicate a petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. A given publication's high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, show the 
influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has had an impact 
within the field. Several of the researchers who provided letters in support of the petition reference 
the Petitioner's publications in Nature Cell Biology, Molecular Cell and Nature Communications, 
comment on the journals' reputations, and indicate that they have also published their own work in 
these publications. For exampleJ I principal scientist atl I 
observes that Nature Cell Biology "only publishes important, original, and outstanding studies in cell 
6 The Petitioner submitted journal rankings published by Scimago Institutions Rankings (scimagojr.com) showing that 
Nature Cell Biology andMolecular Cell ranked 3rd and 4th among"CellBiology" joumals,Mol ecular Cell is ranked 4th 
among"MolecularCell" journals, and Cell Reports,Nature Communications andPloS Biology are ranked 8th, 11th and 
l 5th,respectively, amongjournals classified as "Biochemistry , Genetics and Molecular Biology (miscellaneous)." 
7 
biology," but her observation does not equate to a statement that the journal only publishes the work 
of nationally acclaimed researchers or that every article published in the journal gamers its authors 
national or international recognition in the field. 
While publishing articles in prestigious publications is noteworthy, evidence of journal rankings must 
be considered along with other relevant information regarding the Petitioner's publication and citation 
record; the reputation of a journal that published her work is not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. For the additional reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner has not shown that her overall publication record demonstrates the 
required sustained national or international acclaim for this classification. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of such articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
of her work, the recognition that her work has received, and whether such influence and recognition 
have been sustained. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided evidence that her w01k 
had been cited by others 419 times, with her most cited articles receiving 116, 56, and 43 citations, 
respectively. 7 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has argued that citation counts are "a poor measure [ of] 
significance in any given scientific field" and "bear little relevance to sustained acclaim."8 
Nevertheless, she has submitted evidence intended to provide additional context for her citation figures 
and to establish their significance. At the time of filing, she provided a chart from Thomson-Reuters' 
In Cites Essential Science Indicators, highlighting what appear to be average citation rates for articles 
published between 2007 and 2017 in the research field of "Molecular Biology & Genetics." The 
Petitioner stated that, based on the figures provided in the chart, a similarly published researcher in 
this field "might be expected to receive approximately 185 citations in the same timeframe" while she 
received over 400, or 2.25 times the average. The Petitioner reasoned that "the amount of citations 
that these works have received compared to the average demonstrates that [she] and her work have 
received sustained acclaim in her field." 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a different, more recent InCites Essential 
Citation Indicators "baselines-percentiles" chart, with the field "Biology & Biochemistry" highlighted. 
She compared her cumulative citations for articles published between 2009 and 2019 with the 50th 
percentile citation figures provided on the chart and emphasized thather466 cumulative citations were 
3.24 times higher than the median baseline figure. We discussed this evidence in our previous 
decision, noting that, when comparing the two charts, the "Biology & Biochemistry" research field 
7 These citation figures are for the Petitioner's 2012 Molecular Cell article, her20 I 6Nature Cell Biology article, and her 
2013 Biotechnology and Bioengineering article, as of March 2019. The updated Google Scholar profile she submits on 
motion, which includes additional articles published in 2019 and 2020, indicates 651 cumulative citations. The article in 
Molecular Cell remains hermostcited publication, with 128 citations as ofJuly 2020. 
8 The Petitioner acknowledged thatthere are researchers who have garnered thousands of citations for their work, but states 
that they "have generally been ab le to do so because they are frequently named as the 'corresponding author' for several 
publications," or "[i]n other words, these authors are credited for leading the lab in which the studies were perforrned­
not for executing the studies orpublishingthework." She did not, however,provide anycorroboratingevidence to support 
this argument or herposition that citations are irrelevantto her eligibility for this classification. 
8 
has substantially lower average citation rates than the "Molecular Biology & Genetics" field initially 
selected as an appropriate point of comparison. She did not exp lain why a different research field was 
selected at the time of the RFE response. 
We agree with the Petitioner that there is no threshold number of citations that must be met for an 
individual to demonstrate her extraordinary ability in the sciences. Nevertheless, we must review her 
publication and citation record in context and it is her burden to establish that she is more likely than 
not in that small percentage of researchers at the very top ofher field. As we noted above and discussed 
in our prior decision, the evidence she submits to show more specifically where her published work 
stands in relation to others is incomplete and inconsistent, and the Petitioner's motion does not address 
this deficiency. 
We acknowledge thatl I who runs the~ laboratory where the Petitioner works, 
comments on the Petitioner's cumulative citations. She states that '"compared to traditionall I 
research,~-----~ is a relatively new field," and that '"it is not surprising that the citation 
number is lower compared to other traditional! I studies.'1 I observes that she has "seen 
young assistant professors and even associate professors in our field, who do not have the citations 
that [the Petitioner] has" and states that she considers the Petitioner's number of citations to be "vezy 
impressive." As of the date of filing, the Petitioner was working as a postdoctoral fellow, 
approximately five years removed from completion of her Ph.D. I ts observation she has more 
citations than some scientists in her specific field who are somewhat more advanced in their careers 
is not sufficient to support a finding that her overall body of research has been recognized at a level 
that places her in the small percentage at the top of that field. 
The information provided from InCites Essential Science Indicators shows that several of the 
Petitioner's individual published papers have higher-than-average citation rates in the "Molecular 
Biology & Genetics" field, and citation rates that would place them among the top 10% of papers 
published in the "Biology and Biochemistry" research field in the same year. The Petitioner's 2012 
Molecular Cell article meets the top 10% threshold according to this metric, but there is a significant 
gap between articles that meet this threshold ( 49 citations) and the most cited papers in the field (3,091 
citations at the top 0.01 %, 569 at the top 0.1 %). 
We also recognize that the Petitioner has continued to publish her work and that her number of 
citations increased considerably after the date of filing. For example, her 2016 Nature Cell Biology 
article, which had 56 citations at the time of filing, had 121 citations according to the Google Scholar 
profile submitted in support of the motion. Continued citation of the Petitioner's work after the filing 
date speaks to the significance of that work, which we have granted, above; but it cannot retroactively 
establish eligibility at the time of filing. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the 
time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed her 
work, she did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in 
her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim orrepresent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 
Most of the Petitioner's arguments on motion focus on her original research contributions. The issue 
before us in the final merits determination is whether the Petitioner has received recognition for those 
contributions that establishes her sustained national or international acclaim and that has elevated her 
to the very top of her field. The Petitioner has shown that the work she has perfom1ed during her 
graduate studies and ostdoctoral f ellowshi sis im ortant research that has contributed to scientific 
understanding of 'ses and which may lead to roved 
diagnostic capabilities and therapeutic strategies for ~-~and other diseases. letter 
establishes that the Petitioner is a valuable contributor to her laboratory at w.-'h""i""le::......--,---' I lofl I University, comments on the 1,boratorv's reputation, noting that~--~-
is a leading expert i~ !studies." I~. ___ ___,braises the Petitioner's work a as 
"outstanding" and states that she is an "asset to the biomedical research community." However, this 
evidence does not lead to a detennination that the Petitioner enjoys sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
As discussed, the Petitioner has established that she is the co-inventor of a patented .... ! _____ ____, 
system that is being "optimized for production and commercially developed for clinical applications," 
but she has not demonstrated any individual recognition she received as one of 13 co-inventors of the 
patented invention. The Petitioner has also emphasized that GeneCards, described as "a searchable, 
integrative database that provides comprehensive, user-friendly information on all annotated and 
predicted human genes," lists her 2019 Nature Communications article under the entry for the 
I ] as the "primary source" of information about the gene. In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner stated that "an entry like this will be read and used by every scientist in the world who 
investigates or works with this gene," and claimed that "[a] Genecard Entry such as this giving the 
author of the article that elucidated the function and effects of this gene is instant international 
notoriety." While a letter from l 0)who co-authored this article, discusses the Petitioner's 
important contributions to the project and the significance of the discovery, she does not mention the 
GeneCards entry as an indicator that the Petitioner received individual recognition for her discovery, 
much less "instant international" acclaim in the field. Further, it is unclear that the inclusion of the 
Petitioner's article on the GeneCards entry occurred prior to the filing of the petition, as it was 
submitted for the first time in response to the RFE. 
The evidence related to the Petitioner's other contributions demonstrates that her work has been relied 
on by other researchers who have cited to her publications, and has a number of potential applications, 
but does not demonstrate how her activities have garnered her national and international acclaim. For 
example, the Petitioner submitted evidence that the research findings of her 2012 Molecular Cell 
article were reported by science-related media outlets in the United States and China. As noted above, 
this evidence supports the significance of those findings. However, although the Petitioner contributed 
to the research and authored the paper, the media reports do not single her out or acknowledge her for 
her findings. 
The recommendation letters in the record summarize the Petitioner's research, speak to its originality 
and potential to impact further research and therapeutic treatments, and comment on its publication in 
prestigious journals. While some of the authors assert that they consider the Petitioner to be at the top 
of their shared research field, they do not elaborate on how she has garnered the necessary sustained 
national or international acclaim to elevate her to that level. For instance! I states that the 
Petitioner "is unquestionably one of the top research scientists in her field in the world." I I 
I !Professor and Principal Investigator a~ I university indicates thatthe Petitioner "has 
emerged as one of the outstanding scientists in the world in the rapidly developing area ot1 I I I research." Similarly J !of University o~ I indicates that the 
Petitioner "clearly is one of the top scientists in her field" and "has proven herself to be an 
extraordinary scientist." In addition, at least three of the letters point to the Petitioner's employment 
atOas evidence of her standing in the field, noting that the university "only takes the best scientists 
from around the world." 
While these letters contain claims regarding the Petitioner's standing in her field, the statute 
nevertheless demands "extensive documentation" of her recognition. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act. We emphasize that we find that the expert recommendation letters to be credible in their 
descriptions of the Petitioner's research, its significance and its potential, and the authors are sincere 
in their assessment of her abilities as a scientist. However, the letters are not supported by sufficient 
evidence that the Petitioner's publications, peer review activities, and research contributions to date 
have resulted in her being viewed by the overall field as among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not establish that she has 
received widespread recognition for her achievements and is recognized by the greater field as having 
a career of acclaimed work. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. As noted in our prior decision, the Petitioner is in the early stages 
of what promises to be a very successful career in the sciences, but she seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutmy 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown proper grounds for reopening. We have 
reconsidered our previous determination that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and again we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated her eligibility for the classification sought. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14444775 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a songwriter, musician, and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(I) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a songwriter, musician and producer for the and ecord 
labels, and is credited on songs by artists such as.__---.-____ ,...,._ ____ _,._ ____ ....,, and I, I, who performs under the pseudonym......,. ___ ~ He has also contributed to songs 
~ land others as a session guitarist. He states that he intends to continue working in 
the United States as a songwriter and producer. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to a high salary in relation to others in his field and 
commercial success in the performing arts. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and a leading or 
critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence 
in the record, we agree that the Petitioner meets the two criteria granted by the Director, but find that 
he does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification of at least three criteria. 
1 The record shows that he has been working in the United States for several years prior to the filing of this petition pursuant 
to 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
2 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v) relating to 
published material about him and contributions to the field of major significance, he does not contest the Director's 
decision relating to these criteria on appeal or otherwise refer to them in his appeal brief. We will therefore consider these 
issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's receipt (along with two ~) of the Society of 
Comr;iosers, Authors, and Music Publishers (SOCAN) Songwriting Prize inL_J for his work on the 
song l I performed b~ I The evidence indicates that the award includes a $10,000 
cash prize, a keyboard, and a $500 gift card. In addition, the official rules for the prize state that the 
song must be original, and created by songwriters who are Canadian citizens, landed immigrants or 
legal residents, and who have not been nominated for a Grammy award or are a previous winner of 
the SOCAN Songwriting Prize. 
The Director noted in his decision that the prize is described as honoring "emerging Canadian 
songwriters," and therefore excludes those "who have already achieved excellence in the field ... ," 
rendering this evidence less than probative. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the plain language 
of this criterion does not preclude an award from meeting the requirements simply because it is granted 
to "emerging" artists, or because it is awarded based in part upon public voting. 
We agree with the Director that limitations on the scope of potential awardees may be taken into 
consideration when determining whether an award is granted for "excellence in the field of endeavor," 
since that phrase includes all of those engaged in the field of endeavor, not just the pool of nominees 
for a particular award. 3 Here, the exclusion of those who have been nominated for a Grammy award 
removes from the pool of potential awardees those who have already been judged to have 
demonstrated excellence in the field of songwriting. In addition, while the official rules state that the 
short list of ten finalists is nominated by an independent panel of experts "on the basis of artistic 
merit," the award itself is determined by public vote. Therefore, we also agree with the Director that 
the rules do not establish that the winner of the SOC AN Songwriting Prize is awarded for excellence 
in songwriting as opposed to popularity. 
Further, the evidence does not establish that the SOCAN Songwriting Prize is nationally or 
internationally recognized. The Petitioner initially submitted evidence that the press release from 
SOCAN about his receipt of the award was posted on the website businessinsider.com, as well as on 
the organization's own website. This evidence does not show recognition in the field beyond the 
awarding entity. Other media about the Petitioner's and his co-writers' receipt of this award included 
articles posted on the websites fyimusicnews.com and indie88.com. However, the information about 
these media outlets from their own websites is insufficient to show that these articles constitute 
national or international recognition in the music industry. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted additional evidence 
about the SOCAN Songwriting Prize, the organization, and previous winners of the award. We note 
that much of this evidence refers not to the songwriting prize, but to the "SOCAN Awards," which are 
granted at a highly publicized event and include awards in a large number of categories including 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. Pg. 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that limitations on competitors is a relevant 
consideration when determining whether an award was granted on the basis of excellence in the field. 
3 
"Songwriters of the Year." That award was given to other songwriters itj I not the Petitioner and 
his collaborators. This evidence does not demonstrate that the SOCAN Songwriting Prize receives 
the same level of recognition, either from the general public or in the field. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they 
have performed in either a leading or critical role, and that that role has been for an organization or 
establishment having a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that he has played a leading or critical role for companies such as I I the I b, and I l dba I I I I as well as for individual artists who, he asserts, operated as "going business concerns" which 
qualify as organizations. In his response to the Director's RFE, for example, he states that his "critical 
rol~ withl lcontributt to mn)tjnla ~-];hoard chrlll~ songs and R. IAA certifications for 
artists such as I, I _ _ __ : _ an .__ _ _ ___,t' A letter from I I D SVP of A~~--------_.....,,..verifies that the Petitioner "has signed a publishing 
deal" and is employed as a songwriter, producer, and musician, and that his "writing and productions 
have led to multiple billboard charting songs ... " A similar letter from I I a music 
publisher atl land co-founder ofl I states that he has been collaborating with 
the Petitioner since signing him in 2010, and that the Petitioner "has surpassed all our collective 
expectations." And in a third letterJ I, Vice President of A&R a~ I notes that the 
Petitioner continues to work closely withl l an artist that he signed. All of these letters are 
supported by evidence from websites such as discogs.com and allmusic.com showing that the 
Petitioner is credited as a composer, producer, and musician on son~s performed by the artists listed 
above as well as others, and also by copies of contracts he signed witrl I This evidence 
does not, however, show that he has played either a leading or critical role for any of the companies 
with which he has been employed. 
First, regarding the Petitioner's role forl I the record does not include evidence which 
suggests that he has served in a leadership position or otherwise acted as a leader for the company. As 
for a critical role, the above evidence demonstrates that he has worked as a composer, producer, and 
musician on several songs for well-kn'C/-,I-IC..U...., ................. .,__,,.hich have been commercial successes. However, 
as noted b the Director in his decision is a large, multinational company which touts itself 
as.__ ___ ~~----~----' in the website materials submitted. Although the evidence 
shows that the Petitioner has contributed to several commercially successful songs, it does not show 
that these results were of significant importance tol ts overall activities, which according to 
its own marketing materials includes ownership ot1 I songs from well-known artists 
past and present. 
4 
Second, the evidence about the role the Petitioner ha.s served fo~ I concerns only his involvement 
as a songwriter, producer, and musician wittj ~ The letter froml J credits him with 
helping to create the artist's "signature sound," and states that he is involved on a dail basis with the 
creation of a new album. But neither the letter nor other evidence in the record about indicates 
that he has played a leading or critical role for the company, which is a part of '-----------' and includes several record labels and represents many popular artists. 
Third, the Petitioner claims in his response to the Director's RFE that he is a co-founder oti I I I and refers to the letter froml._ ____ _,~ as verification of this status. However, the letter 
mentions only thatl I has been collaborating with the Petitioner since meeting him in 2010, 
and that he anl his pirtners "immediately signed him to an exclusive publishing deal." As with I land the evidence indicates only that the Petitioner was an employee, and does not 
suggest that he served in a leadership role or that he was a critical part of any success enjoyet by the I 
company. Further, as the Director found in his decision, the evidence does not demonstrate tha 
.__ __ _.I has a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the term "organization" is defined as "an administrative and 
functional structure ( such as a business ... )" and that individual artists constitute "going business 
concerns" and should therefore be considered as organizations. Although this definition, obtained 
from the website merriam-webster.com, uses a business as an example of an organization, it does not 
suggest that all businesses are organizations. Notably, the two examples found on this website refer 
to a formal structure, which the Petitioner has not shown to present iu the case rthe individual artists 
with whom we has worked. Further, in the cases otj ll an~ I 
the evidence shows that he was one of many artists who contributed to individual songs on a particular 
album, and was not a part of any formal structure. And although the evidence establishes that he has 
a close working relationship wittj l again there is no evidence of a formal administrative or 
functional structure of which the Petitioner can claim to be a member. In addition, as noted by the 
Director in his decision, even ifl lwas considered to be an organization as opposed to an 
individual artist, the record does not sufficiently establish tha~ I has a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons detailed above, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
5 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14515168 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neuroscience, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through either 
evidence of a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(I) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher specializing in the area of neuroscience. He received his Ph.D. in I I Neurobiology from University in 2014 and at the time of filin 
his petition was employed as a postdoctoral research fellow at~------------~ ~-----~I He states that he plans to continue his research in the field of neuroscience in the 
United States by applying for academic research positions. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to participation as a judge of the work of others and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating 
to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and contributions of major significance to the 
field of endeavor. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that although he meets 
the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification, he has not established sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage ofresearchers at the top of his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence of several types of awards he received, including a 
scholarship, a fellowship, and an award for an outreach project he conducted. In responding to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), he primarily focused on his receipt in 2016 of the Early Career 
Investigator Award from ~---------- The Director noted the additional evidence 
submitted, which included information about previous winners of the award, but concluded that since 
the award is limited to members of0 it did not show that the award is nationally or internationally 
recognized. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the reputation oO and refers to seven new reference letters 
submitted on appeal. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and 
has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AA0 will not accept evidence offered 
for the first time on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Here, since the Director requested further documentation 
showing that this award was nationally or internationally recognized in his RFE, we will not consider 
these new reference letters. However, we note thp.1..in...r.esponding to that RFE, the Petitioner referred 
to a letter fro ml lof the L_J College of Surgeons! I who reiterates 
much of the information presented on the submitted pages fromOs website and also states a number 
of factors that led to the Petitioner's~eipt of the Early Career Investigator Award. In addition, both 
this letter and0 s website note thatLJ is the national neuroscience society I I and represents 
the c1untry it the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies. As this evidence demonstrates that 
Dis s leading professional association in the Petitioner's field, it establishes that the Early 
Career Investigator Award is recognized at the national level in that field. Therefore, we disagree with 
the Director and conclude that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes letters from the editors of scientific journals, including The European Journal of 
Neuroscience, Journal of Neural Regenerative Research, and Frontiers, which verify that the 
Petitioner has served as a peer reviewer for those journals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarZv articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted the title pages of more than 20 research articles he 
authored which were published in scientific journals. Additional evidence shows that he has also 
presented papers at scientific conferences. As such, we agree that the Petitioner has established that 
he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three criteria, and 
therefore meets the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification. Although he also claims to 
meet a fourth criterion, relating to original contributions of major significance in his field, we need 
not consider whether he meets additional criteria. Rather, we will analyze the evidence of any original 
contributions the Petitioner has made together with the balance of the record in conducting a final 
merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
3 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not go into great detail concerning his sustained national or international 
acclaim as a neuroscience researcher or his standing as one of the small percentage at the top of that 
field, but briefly asserts that his receipt of awards and his original contributions of major significance 
are sufficient to meet those standards. In responding to the Director's RFE, he emphasized the 
importance of metrics and statistics based upon the total number of citations to his journal articles 
when discussing the importance of his contributions, as well as within the final merits determination. 
Further, when discussing the impact of his scholarly publications in scientific journals on appeal, he 
also refers back to these metrics and statistics, and asserts that the Director failed to give them 
sufficient weight in his decision. We will therefore begin with a review of that evidence and the 
assertions made by the Petitioner based upon it. 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence of his papers which were published in scientific journals, 
as well as the number of citations to those papers, from his profile page on Google Scholar. In his 
RFE response, he asserts that the rate at which his papers have been cited in comparison to others in 
his field shows that his work "has been widely cited in his field, which shows that his original work 
was directly implemented by others and of major significance to them." He specifically refers to a 
report in the record from Clarivate Analytics and asserts that it demonstrates his citation rate "is well 
within the Top 5% citation rate within the entire field of Neuroscience ... and is 4 times greater than 
the average citation rate of neuroscience researchers." Both of these claims are based upon a 
comparison of the Petitioner's "impact factor" in the years 2014-2016, calculated using citations to 10 
of his papers published between 2013-2016, to the 2017 impact factors of 261 scientific journals that 
publish articles in the field of neuroscience. 
However, these conclusions made by the Petitioner are not supported by the statistics and metrics he 
has included in the record. Most importantly, the Petitioner is claiming that his citation rate is among 
the top 5% in his field based upon a comparison not to the impact factor of other researchers, but to 
that of scientific journals. He does not explain how such a comparison of two completely different 
sets of data leads to his conclusion, or why it supports his assertion that he is one of the small 
percentage of neuroscience researchers at the top of the field. Similarly, his statement that his citation 
rate is four times greater than the citation rate of other neuroscience researchers is based upon a 
comparison of the average citation rate for neuroscience papers, not that of individual researchers, and 
therefore does not take into account the many factors that differentiate these figures, including that 
papers typically have multiple authors. Again, the Petitioner does not explain the relevance of this 
comparison or that it supports either his conclusion or his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
In addition, the usefulness of the comparisons suggested by the Clarivate Analytics report is put into 
question by other evidence in the record. A paper published in the journal Scientomerics on February 
29, 2012 describes and defends what is referred to as the "Garfield impact factor" as a means of 
"representing the relative contribution of journals to the total impact of information in a field," and 
stresses that "[T]he use of GF ( e.g. for evaluation purposes) should not be extended from the journal 
to the authors of papers," as the Petitioner does in reaching his conclusions. Also.I I I hates that he disagrees that "the comparison of average citation rates per year between [the 
4 
Petitioner's] publications and other researchers in the field does not show that [the Petitioner's] work 
has been highly influential. .. " As noted, the comparison made by the Petitioner is not between his 
citation rate and that of other researchers, but between his citation rate and the impact factor of 
scientific journals. While both the total number and rate of citations to a researcher's published work 
are factors that may be considered in determining his or her acclaim and standing within the field, the 
statistics and metrics provided here, and the conclusions the Petitioner draws from them, do not 
provide an accurate or complete picture of his relative acclaim and standing in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also focuses on the impact of individual papers he authored in addressing the 
significance of his contributions to the field of neuroscience. For four of those papers, he provides a 
brief summary, the impact factor of the journals in which they were published, and the number of other 
published papers which cite to them. He then refers to previously submitted reference letters which 
describe this research and its impact on the field. The first of these was written by.__ _____ ___, I pf O who has known him throughout his academic career and supervised his doctoral 
work. She states that durin his time in her lab, the Petitioner "discovered thq lthat 
speci fically.__ _______ ---.-----.-----,.------------1 which wi II be essential to the 
further development of this approach as a therapy." The Petitioner notes that this research was 
reported in a paper in the journal Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience in 2013, which had been cited 
to on more than 40 occasions at the time the petition was filed. 
Another letter referencin~ this same research was submitted by.__ ________ .....,.... __ '""'o""f-'t=h""'e 
University I ] who states that it was a "major contribution to the field o I I and "has received international acclaim and many citations in research papers, inc~l_u_d-in_g_t_h_o_s~e 
from my lab." However, he does not specify how the Petitioner's research has impacted his lab's 
research, or how his publication of "a recent important research review" evidences his international 
acclaim. 
Reference letters a,....d_d_r_es_s_in~_a_n_o_th_,er aspect of the Petitioner's research were writ;..:.t-=-en:..:......:b:...~c!:=======-
1 I of niversit of A li'r'll-u..i....iu..J.1.l~..J..._--,___J andl I of the Universit of writes th~at_t_h_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r-'s~ 
"extensive research int.._._ __ --.-..----.-1 in.__ _______ __. neuron development ... has been 
truly groundbreaking." She further states that her research group built on this research which led to a 
published research paper, and concludes that the Petitioner's research "has and will serve as the basis 
for important further work that could lead to an effective therapy forl.__ ___ ___, 
I t' I I writes that the Petitioner's finding "tha~ !regulates the 
development ofl I" was novel and has since been duplicated, and represents "an 
important paradigm shift in out understanding of this complex developmental process that will shape 
the future direction of this field and my own lab." 
The letters also note that the Petitioner has co-authored several review articles which were published 
in scientific journals, which account for four of his five most highly cited publications. I I 
states that one such review article "has become an essential resource for our field." In his 
letter,.__ _____ _. writes that "[B]y comprehensively reviewing and analyzing broad areas of 
neuroscience research, [the Petitioner] has provided the field with invaluable sources of information 
on essential research areas." Another letter, submitted by an associate editor for Journal of Neural 
Regenerative Research, indicates that from 2014-15, one of the review articles co-authored by the 
5 
Petitioner was the most cited article in the journal. We note that Clarivate Analytics, the source of the 
impact factor metrics analyzed above, notes on its website that "Review articles generally are cited 
more frequently than typical research articles because they often serve as surrogates for earlier 
literature ... "1 
These letters indicate that the Petitioner's doctoral and post-doctoral research is original and has added 
to the understanding of processes related tol l allowing his fellow researchers in the 
field to build upon his work. In addition, as noted above, this work was recognized at the national 
level in 2016 through his receipt of the Early Career Investigator A ward froml I 
Also, the evidence indicates that his review articles have successfully compiled and analyzed the 
existing research in neuroscience in a way that other researchers have found to be useful. However, 
this evidence does not demonstrate that this work has placed him among the very small percentage of 
neuroscience researchers at the top of this field. Although the record shows that his work has been 
cited by other researchers in his field, the documentary information concerning impact factors 
emphasized by the Petitioner, analyzed above, is insufficient to establish that either the rate or total 
number of citations to his published research papers elevates his standing in the field to that level. 
And the award which recognized the excellence of his work at D specifically excludes more 
experienced researchers who may have spent years making contributions to the field of neuroscience. 
In addition, the record does not include evidence showing that his more recent work since joining I I as a research fellow in 2017 has received a 
similar level of acclaim. A letter from.__ ________ __.ofl bates 
that he has not worked with the Petitioner, but knows of his work in another lab at the school and 
provides a brief description. He describes this current research as "promising" and concludes that "it 
is likely that his work will lead to important advances in the field," but does not indicate that the 
Petitioner's recent work has already garnered acclaim at the national or international level. 
Further, the evidence regarding the Petitioner's service as a peer reviewer for three journals verifies 
his expertise as researcher in the field of neuroscience, but does not demonstrate that such a role is 
indicative of widespread acclaim or elevated standing within his field. A reference letter from the 
'--------~ The European Journal of Neuroscience notes that "we heavily rely on able and 
willing scientists to Rartake in the peer-review system," and that the Petitioner is a "well-qualified 
reviewer." SimilarlyJ I for the Journal of Neural Regenerative Research writes that 
the Petitioner was invited to review two manuscripts, and states that they are grateful to him for 
contributing his time and effort. Both of these letters demonstrate the voluntary nature of peer review 
work, and show that the Petitioner was recognized as a qualified expert in his field but not as one of 
the small percentage of neuroscience researchers at the top of the field. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner has been a productive researcher who has garnered acclaim 
at the national level for his doctoral research, but does not establish that a similar level of acclaim has 
been associated with his more recent work. It also does not show that his overall body of work thus 
far in his career places him among top researchers in the field of neuroscience. He seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather 
1"The Clarivate Analytics Impact Factor," accessed at https://clarivate.com/webofsciencegroup/essays/impact­
factor/#:-:text=The%20annual %20JCR %20impact%20factor,years%20( see%20F igure%201) on April 9, 2021. 
6 
than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held that even athletes performing 
at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16402460 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a trumpet player, is currently a member of the.__ ____________ ___. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has recorded studio albums and toured as a member 
of th~ land has performed as a guest artist on the studio albums of other musicians. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can satisfy five of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or international recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Performing in a leading/critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has 
participated in the nomination process for the Latin Grammy awards as a voting member of the Latin 
Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS). The record also reflects that he was a member of 
a jury that evaluated brass section auditions for youth and ~re-professional orchestras in the state of I I and for the I Symphony Orchestra. Accordingly, the 
record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets the four remaining criteria discussed above. He asserts 
that, with respect to the awards, display and leading or critical roles criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i), 
(vii), and ( viii), the Director's decision does not address most of the evidence he provided and therefore 
2 
does not fully explain why that evidence was insufficient to satisfy these criteria. The Petitioner 
requests that the matter be remanded to the Director for further review if we cannot sustain his appeal 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not established his eligibility under 
the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner provided evidence that he is a 
voting member of LARAS. The limited evidence provided regarding LARAS' membership 
requirements indicates that creative or technical professionals involved in recording music will be 
considered for voting membership if they can document that they have at least six song credits on 
commercially released recordings within five years of applying. As noted by the Director, being 
credited on six commercially released recordings is a professional achievement, but the evidence does 
not support a finding that this level of activity is an "outstanding achievement" or that LARAS views 
it in this light. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the LARAS membership committee also reviews supporting 
documentation such as media coverage and social media, but the record does not establish that this 
type of documentation is required by LARAS or that voting membership is only available to those 
whose achievements have received a certain amount or type of media coverage. The application 
review process is not sufficiently documented in the record, as the Petitioner did not provide the 
section of the academy bylaws that discusses the classes of membership, theirrespectiverequirements, 
or the factors evaluated by the membership committee. Additional evidence would be required to 
support the Petitioner's claim that he was admitted to LARAS based on his "outstanding 
achievements," or that LARAS only admits "the most successful musicians" as voting members. 
However, after reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Petitioner's asse1iion that the decision did not adequately address his claims or evidence with respect 
to the lesser awards, display, and leading or critical roles criteria. An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3(a)(l)(i); 
see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994)(findingthat a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this 
matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner provided two "Silver Medal" certificates awarded by the Global Music Awards in 
2018 .1 In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director concluded that the 
awards "appears to have been conferred to the groupl t rather than to him as an individual. 
The Director further noted that the awards "appear to be local or regional in nature," and stated that 
the Petitioner did not submit "evidence to show the awards are internationally recognized." 
1 In response to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner provided a list of winners from a more recent 
edition of the Global Music Awards indicatin tha ndits individual members were awarded Silver Medals 
for the alb . The Petitioner did not provide his a ward certificate or a letter 
from the awarding entity corroborating his receipt of this award, which appears to have been issued in early 2020. 
3 
We note that one of the Global Music Award certificates was awarded tq I in the categoty 
.__ __________ _.for its albuml I The other certificate was awarded 
to the Petitioner, as an individual, in the I I category for the same album. Further, 1he 
evidence submitted reflects that the Global Music Awards competition does not place geographic 
limitations on competitors and appears to be international in scope, rather than limited to a specific 
region or locality. The Petitioner submitted copies of media aiiicles intended to support his claim 1hat 
the Global Music Award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize in his field. Finally, the 
record also contains additional articles and documentation related to the award and the award's 
sponsoring organization not referenced in the Director's decision. The Director's brief analysis of this 
criterion and the conclusions he reached do not reflect that he considered the evidence referenced 
above. 
In addition, we emphasize that not every awards program that draws from a national or international 
field automatically qualifies as one that is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in a given field. Relevantconsiderationsregardingwhetherthe basis for granting the prizes 
or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 Therefore, in evaluating 
this criterion on remand, the Director should also consider evidence in the record that addresses the 
entry requirements for the Global Music Awards, the number of awards or prizes given, the contest's 
different levels of recognition, and the criteria applied by the judges of the competition. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner "was part of a music group that performed at concerts," but appears to have based his 
adverse conclusion on evidence that was submitted to demonstrate that the Petitioner has also worked 
as an arranger, specifically, copies of sheet music that identify him as such. For example, the Director 
stated that "the copies of the music provided do not show the music was displayed at aiiistic 
exhibitions, [as] these documents did not contain a date or a place of an event." The Petitioner did not 
claim eligibility under this criterion based on his work as a music arranger. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should evaluate the evidence related to the Petitioner's live performances as a 
musician, which includes promotional materials for performances, media articles, concert programs 
and other evidence. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,EvaluationofEvidence Submitted with CertainForml-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
4 
The Petitioner consistently claimed that he can satisfy this criterion based on his roles with! L D I I andl I The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director's analysis of this 
criterion does not address evidence related to his role as a founding member ofl I The 
denial decision reflects that the Director concluded "the evidence does not indicate that the role the 
petitioner has performed forl I and the~---------~ were/are leading critical." 
However, the Petitioner con-ectly notes that the decision does not appear to reach any conclusion with 
respect to his role withl I 
The Petitioner emphasizes his critical role as a founder of the ensemble, and states that its distinguished 
reputation is evidenced by its receipt of a Global Music Award, by its international performances in 
Austria, Italy, Venezuela, Germany and the United States, and by evidence that its "international 
presence" has been recognized by "major media organizations." On remand, the Director should 
evaluate the evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's role with this ensemble and evidence of the 
group's reputation to determine whether he satisfies this criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, we withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least two 
additional criteria beyond the one already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality 
of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USC IS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
prepondemnce of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15738320 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was studying for a doctorate in musical arts at thel I 
New York! I The Petitioner is a collaborative pianist, who routinely performs with singers 
or other musicians. Before he entered the United States as a student, the Petitioner performed with the ~---------------~ first as a singer, then as a rehearsal pianist and later as its 
"principal concert piano accompanist." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied nine of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two criteria, numbered (iv) and (vii). We will not 
disturb these conclusions. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, numbered (v) and (viii). The 
Petitioner does not directly contest the Director's conclusions regarding the other five previously 
claimed criteria, and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 The Petitioner also states 
that his "qualifications should also be analyzed under the comparable evidence standard of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4)" but does not elaborate. 2 This general assertion does not specifically identify an 
erroneous conclusion of fact or law as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
Upon review of the record, we conclude, as discussed below, that the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements of the two claimed criteria discussed on appeal. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Several individuals provide letters praising the Petitioner's work with the~ and elsewhere, but praise 
for the Petitioner's abilities does not establish ma· or si nificance in the field. The president and conductor 
ofth asserts that.___----.,...---------,--------,1an album that the Petitioner recorded with the 
~-~ "was awarded as the Best~----~Album by the Top Ten Most Popular CD Albums of the 
Year 201 O," but the record contains no evidence to support this assertion. The Petitioner submits a 
printout of an Amazon listing for the album, which shows much lower sales rankings: 
#1,287,308 in CDs & Vinyl 
#14,332 inl I Music 
#53,675 in Opera & Vocal (CDs & Vinyl) 
#191,512 in Classical (CDs & Vinyl) 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained how his accompaniment oti~--~bn the album amounts 
to a contribution of major significance not only to the production of that album, but in the field overall. 
The principal ofi I Music School states that the school hosts an annual "educational lecture and 
~-~!recital." In 2014, when the Petitioner spoke and performed, the school "estimated around 350-400 
attendees for that night," but ultimately sold 576 tickets. The principal does not explain how this event 
was of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not established any original contribution that has had an identifiable impact beyond 
the occasions where he performed and the institutions hosting or sponsoring those performances. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 The Petitioner cites an unpublished appellate decision from 2018, in which we referred to comparable evidence when 
determining that a musician had satisfied the "display" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). In the present case, the 
Director already took that reasoning into account, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied the "display" criterion. 
Having initially claimed to satisfy nine of the ten regulat01y criteria, the Petitioner does not explain on appeal which criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a critical role when he accom anied the on occasions 
such as the live performance released as the album~-----------~ and rehearsals for 
the 20041 !Olympics. The evidence submitted, however, is not sufficient to show that theDhas 
a distinguished reputation. 
As noted above, the record does not corroborate the claim thatl l's album is an award-linningl 
bestseller. Regarding thel !Olympics, the~---------~ asserts that the 
won the silver medal," but a submitted printout from the event's website indicates that thee=] was one 
of 1 71 I that won silver medals during a qualifying round. There is no indication that the I lwon a medal in the final round of competition. 
Also noted above, the Petitioner spoke and performed a~ !Music School. While the Petitioner's 
lecture and performance sold more tickets than anticipated, the Petitioner has not established that this one­
night appearance constituted a critical role for the school, or that the school has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that he also performed in a critical role for thel • l which consists 
of graduate students at the school where the Petitioner studied. A professor emeritus at the university 
states that the Petitioner was "one of the regular accompanists for ourCJ program," participating in 
rehearsals an~ "degree recitals." He does not claim that the Petitioner's involvement was 
critical to theLJprogram, and the Petitioner does not establish thatl I program has 
a distinguished reputation relative to other academicOprograms. 
The Petitioner played piano on~------~ an extended play record (EP) by violist ~I--~ ~--~I The album's producer and engineer states that the Petitioner's involvement was an important 
participant in the recording. The Petitioner does not identify the organization or establishment for which 
his participation amounted to a leading or critical role. The recording was produced and issued byD I I but the record does not establish the reputation of that company. 
(Reputation is a matter of outside perception, and the company's own promotional materials are not first­
hand evidence of how others regard the company.) The record indicates that the EP won two bronze 
medals from thel !Music Awards, but the record does not establish the significance of those awards 
or provide any information about the awarding entity or its nomination/award selection process.3 
Therefore, the awards do not establish the distinguished reputation of any entity involved with the EP. 
The Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
3 We note that the award letter misspells the violist' S name as I I' and does not indicate t~at any redals 
were actually furnished with the award. Instead, the letter invites the awardee to purchase "the very specia Music 
Awards medallion" if she wishes "to make [her] achievement visible to others." 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established that individuals who have worked with 
him have great respect for his talents and his ability, but he has not shown that this reputation extends 
beyond those who have worked directly with him in this way. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
recognition indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim, or which 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15865404 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actress and model who has worked in commercial, music video and film projects, 
as well as in print and television advertising campaigns for major brands. The Petitioner indicates that 
she intends to continue working as an actress in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in her field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of these evidentiary criteria, related to judgin~ 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a jury member for theLJ 
I IFilm Festival held in 2016 and therefore supports the Director's determination that she 
meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard in adjudicating the remaining criteria. She maintains that she meets five additional criteria, 
discussed below, and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one 
criterion and does not meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership. 
Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education or 
experience, recommendations by colleagues or current members, or payment of dues do not satisfy this 
criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements.1 Further, the overall prestige 
of a given association is not determinative; the issue here is membership requirements rather than the 
association's overall reputation. 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based on her membership in the ~I------~ 
.__~ __ _.I private members club, noting that the club "caters to a select group of industty 
professionals." She submitted evidence that she paid an annual membership fee in 2018 and 2019. 
However, she did not provide any additional evidence to establish that this club could be considered 
an association in her field, nor did she provide evidence of its membership requirements or evidence 
that admission decisions are judged by recognized national or international experts in that field. In a 
request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner of the deficiencies in the initial 
evidence, clearly informed her of the elements of this criterion that must be met, and allowed her an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence, such as the association's bylaws or constitution. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner maintained her eligibility based on her membership inD 
I I noting that it is I lprivate members' clubs originally aimed 
at those in the arts and media." The Petitioner explained that the club has a membership committee 
of 30 to 40 experts from "the creative industries" who meet Juarterly to discuss new members. The 
Petitioner emphasized thatthd.__ __________ __.club has "a very long waiting list" and 
includes prominent actors among its members. She provided several media articles abou~ I 
and submitted its "House Rules" in lieu of its bylaws or constitution. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that I !requires outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by national or international experts in the Petitioner's field. 
The record supports that conclusion. While membership in the club appears to be fairly exclusive, 
with membership decisions made at the discretion of a membership committee, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that the club requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition for membership, 
nor does it establish that the membership committee is comprised of recognized national or 
international experts in the Petitioner's field. 
1 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidcncc Submitted with CcrtainForml-140Pctitiom,~· 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6-7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguishedachievementsin 
origin a 1 research). 
3 
In her res onse to the RFE, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of her membershi in the 
Filmmakin Union which she described as a 
Specifically, she 
submitted a copy of her membership card along with an English language translation. The Director 
determined that this evidence was insufficient, noting that the Petitioner offered no evidence of the 
union's membership requirements and therefore did not demonstrate that her membership met all 
elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a new letter from filmmakd l who states that he is 
a Board Member of the Filmmaking Union I I and discusses the union's membership 
requirements and admissions procedures. The Petitioner emphasizes that the submission of new 
evidence on appeal is permitted based on Chapter 3.8 oftheAAO Practice Manual. 
While there are instances in which we consider new evidence submitted on appeal, in this matter, the 
Director's RFE fully informed the Petitioner of the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the type of evidence needed to demonstrate that her membership in a given 
association meets all elements of this criterion. She was the op]ortunity to submit evidence of the 
membership requirements for the Filmmaking Union I prior to the denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will not consider this new supporting evidence in our adjudication of the appeal See 
Matter o_[Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on 
notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before 
the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will 
adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The cited section of the AAO Practice Manual does not 
supersede case law or allow for the submission of evidence that was previously requested in an RFE. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in pro_fessional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must provide published material about her and relating to her 
work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and 
author of the material. 2 The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted "articles which merely 
mention you, which do not include their author, and which are about your modeling career" noting 
that "none are about you as it relates to your work in acting." The Director acknowledged that one 
article, published byl !briefly discusses the Petitioner's acting career, but emphasized that 
she did not submit comparative data showing that this publication is a major medium. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director's detennination that the published materials 
merely mention her is "blatantly false," noting that she was featured in the cover story of two 
2 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 7. 
4 
magazines as well as in several other articles. The Petitioner concedes that "not every article included 
the name of the author" but points to several articles in which the author was identified. The Petitioner 
also maintains that the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not require the submission 
of circulation numbers, but nevertheless emphasizes that she submitted this evidence for at least two 
of the submitted publications. Finally, she states that the evidence she submitted is "relevant, probative 
and credible" and therefore establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that she meets this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted articles published bY.,-------,--;:::=====-.:.!:' I =::;I 
I 
.__ ____________ _. ~-----~ .__ ___ __, and.__ ___ ~ We agree with 
the Petitioner that some of the submitted articles are about her, relate to her work as an actress, and 
include the required date, title and author of the material. 
However, to meet all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner must provide 
evidence that published material about her appeared "in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media."4 Here, the Petitioner submitted a considerable number of articles, but, with 
respect to almost all of them, she did not provide evidence to supp01i her claim that they were 
published in major media publications. 
Her initial evidence included a letter from the Head ofi I who discusses the 
circulation of the newspa er noting it is "one of the most respected and 
successful puh)jcatiaof i .__ __ _,with a circulation of 2.2 million copies" and "the leader among all 
print media inl,__ __ _. with distribution in 60 countries worldwide. The Petitioner indicated in her 
initial supporting letter that she was submitting an aiiicle from.__ _______ ~ but none of the 
articles in the record ( or their accompanying English translations) clearly identify that newspaper as 
the source. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from th~-------------~ publisher of the I " lnewspaper. According to the letter, this weekly newspaper's circulationof35,000 copies 
gives it a "leading position in the print media market ofi t' The letter lists otherregional weekly 
newspapers with circulation figures that range from 7 000 to 50,000 copies. However, the fact that this ~1 weekly newspaper has a higher circulation than some of the other weekly newspapers in 
L__J does not demonstrate that it qualifies as "major media" itj I 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged that an aiiicle published byl I was about the 
Petitioner and her acting career, but specifically noted that she did not provide evidence thatl I I I is a major media publication. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner she did not provide any 
additional evidence in support of her claim that published materials about her have appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
3 The Petitioneralsoprovidedevidencethat she appeared as a print/editorial model in Marie Claire(Hong Kong) and other 
magazines, butthese publications did notincludearticles about her. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional ormajortrade publications orin other major media publications should establish that thecirculation(on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
On appeal, the submits a screenshot from Site Worth Trc~ffic (siteworthtraffic.com) which provides an 
estimate of "the website value ofl I" indicating that it reaches I 053 unique users each day 
and over 384,000 unique visitors per year (based on figures last updated six years ago). Even if we 
considered this previously requested evidence in adjudicating the appeal, it does not provide 
comparative data demonstratingtha~ [qualifies as a major medium based on its circulation 
relative to otherl I online media. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of the submitted published 
materials about her meet all the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii). 
Evidence of the individual ·s original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided reference letters from actors, producers, 
directors and others in the entertainment industry who praise her talents and abilities, but determined 
that the letters did not demonstrate how she has made contributions of major significance in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that letters from experts in her field are not presumptive 
evidence of her eligibility but asserts that they nevertheless "contain substantive evidence of [her] 
original and significant contributions to the entertainment industry." 
The Petitioner further argues that the letters "demonstrated that her work evoked widespread 
commentary, and thus were contributions of major significance." She emphasizes that the letters 
"expressly state that her performances and contributions to her field are 'unique,' 'particular,' 
'significant,' and 'original."' She also maintains that she "has major significance in the industlv 
because she contributes and embodies the extremely unique combination oti I I !culture." Finally, the Petitioner mentions her ability to speak~--------~and 
English languages, noting that filmmakers "would be extremely hard-pressed to find another actor 
who brings [her] specific background to the entertainment industry." 
The reputation of persons who provided letters in support of her petition is not in dispute in this 
proceeding, nor do we doubt their sincerity in praising the Petitioner's talents and abilities. However, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to both specify her original contributions and to document the major 
significance of those contributions in her field. The fact that she submitted credible letters from 
reputable individuals in her industry does not lead to a determination that she has satisfied this 
criterion, particularly if the letters do not shed light on the specific nature of her original contributions 
and their impact or influence on the field. We address a representative sample of the letters below but 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from actm~~----~I who states that she "has demonstrated that 
she can handle the demands of this industry and brings talent and devotion to every role." Music 
produce~ I praises the Petitioner's '"positive attitude and goal-oriented approach to 
6 
work," and states that "her acting skills and personal ualities contribut[ e] to the success in the 
entertainment industry." Film and television produce he Petitioner a~ 
intelligent, worldly and beautiful contribution to our industry" an-.... _____ _,, Chairman ofl__J I I states that she has "amazing ability as an actress," and "is a professional and a quality person 
with no bad habits." A letter from art director! I states that the Petitioner has "strong 
acting skills" and a "unique look" which are in high demand and contribute to "the cultural diversity 
and richness of American cinematographic culture.'i lo~ l similarly praises 
the Petitioner's "very strong acting skills" and '"unique look and talent," while actor and stunt/fight 
coordinatoJ I states that the Petitioner is "unique in her field due to her look, language and 
experience working around the world." 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from Hollywood producer and television series creat010 I lwho describes · · as an actress of "uncommon potential,"notingthathe had intended 
to cast her in the series n 11 tion. He states that she "brings the rare qualities 
of authenticity from her native~----~--~oots," and praises her intelligence, integrity, 
sincerity and work ethic, noting that she "deserves every opportunity to contribute to the American 
media industry, especially as our industry develops more and more transnational outreach."! I I I the Minster of Culture! I describes the Petitioner as "a talented and 
beautiful person." He states that he is "very proud that she is promoting our native culturd ~ I 
and abroad." I I film director and producer! I praises the Petitioner's "outstanding 
artistic skills," "perfect attitude" and her "multicultural background and incredible knowledge and 
understanding of people around the world." 
The Petitioner did not establish how having a diverse skillset, a paiiicular cultural background or 
language skills, or a unique look is an original contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. 
Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
talents to impact the field at a significant level, which she has not shown. Moreover, the letters do not 
comment on the Petitioner's impact in the field beyond the scope of projects in which she has 
performed or participated. 5 General claims that she has the potential to contribute to cultural diversity 
in American cinema do not establish her eligibility under this criterion. 
The submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying the Petitioner's original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence her work has had in her field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that the authors used terms such as "original," "unique" and 
"significant" in their letters, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. 
The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The letters the Petitioner solicited from 
her international industry contacts establish that persons who have worked with her consider her to be 
a talented and hard-working actress, with a cultural background and physical appearance that are in 
5 See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013)(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not corroborate herimpactin the field as a whole). 
6 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 8-9. 
7 
demand in the industry and allow her to perform in diverse roles. However, they do not demonstrate 
her original contributions of major significance in the field of acting. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, a title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 7 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed leading roles for various brands based on her commercial 
and print advertisement modeling work, leading roles for magazines based on her appearance as a 
cover model, and leading roles in film and music video projects. While she provided evidence of her 
participation in the modeling and acting projects she mentioned, the Director advised her in the RFE 
that she would need to submit additional evidence in order to establish that her work has satisfied all 
elements of this criterion. Specifically, the Director asked that she submit letters from executives wi1h 
personal knowledge of the significance of her leading or critical role, noting that such letters should 
provide "detailed and probative information which specifically addresses how your role for an 
organization was leading or critical." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion bas¢..Qn....ili.e following 
specific roles: (1) leading actress in a l t commercial campaign forL__J (2) leading 
actress in a commercial campaign fo Stores and its cosmetics line; (3) leading 
actress inl hdve1iorials; ( 4) leading actress in the filml If 5) leading actress in the music 
video forl I'; and ( 6) leading actress in anl commercial campaign for the 
Chinese market. She did not submit the requested supporting letters from representatives of the 
organizations that employed her in these roles. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claims but determined that she did not establish her 
eligibility under this classification because she did not submit letters from "executive officers wi1h 
personal knowledge of the significance of your leading or critical role." On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that "[n]owhere in the 'plain language of this criterion' is there any mention whatsoever of 
'letters from high-level executive officers with personal knowledge' of an applicant's role, let alone a 
requirement thereof." Further, she maintains that she submitted letters from individuals who seive as 
owners, CEO and chairman of companies that employed her as an actress and directors of projects in 
which she staned, and therefore it is "completely ridiculous" for USCIS to claim that she did not 
submit such letters. She highlights excerpts from several of these letters on appeal, which we address 
below. The individuals who provided these letters did not state with specificity how the Petitioner 
7 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 10. 
8 
performed for their organizations in a leading role or in a critical role that impacted the organizations' 
activities in a significant way. 
The Petitionerrefers to a letter frorrJ l owner of advertising production company! I 
~ I who mentions that his company has worked with the Petitioner on campaigns for brands such 
as_ las well as twoO television commercials. The letter simply confirms that the Petitioner 
appeared in theOcampaign and does not speak to her leading or critical role within an organization. I I does not represent thec=Jbrand or the company that owns it I I and 
his letter does not establish that the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role within that 
organization based on her appearance as an actress in a commercial campaign for one of its products. 
The fact that the Petitioner appeared in commercials for a well-known brand is not sufficient to 
establish that she meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from.__ ______ ~ CEO & Co-founder o~ I .___~I who states that she is "one of our leading models and actresses [who] has been of tremendous 
help to our entertainment enterprises." The Petitioner did not claim that she performed in a leading or 
critical role wittj._~-~--~----'~ nor doe~ .... ----~t s letter provide sufficient detail to establish 
how her role was leading or critical to the organization. Further, the Petitioner has not provided 
evidence that this organization has a distinguished reputation. The Petitionerreferencesa similar letter 
froml !chairman ofl I who confirms that his company hired the Petitioner for 
"eleven (11) different projects as an actress." He does not provide any additional information that 
would establish how her role was leading or critical to the organization, nor does the record contain 
evidence demonstrating tha~ I has a distinguished reputation. 
The two remainTg letter! the Petitioner references on ap2eal are from who 
directed the film and I I director of the .__ ___ ____. music video. The letters 
confirm her work as an actress in these two projects, but do not explain or establish how her acting 
roles were leading or critical to a specific or anization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. She also provided a letter fro owner ot1 I who discusses 
casting her in a lead role in his fil.i,._ __ ____.but he does not discuss how her work on this film was 
leading or critical to his independent film studio, nor does the record include evidence establishing the 
distinguished reputation of that studio. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to consider other evidence that is relevant to 
this criterion, including deal memos, screenshots and photographs ofherwork, newspaper articles that 
discuss her projects, and letters from experts in her field who are familiar with her work. While this 
evidence confirms her participation as an actress and model in film, video, and advertising projects, it 
does not contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the Petitioner 
performed in leading or critical roles for specific organizations or establishments in way that 
contributed to their success or standing. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
9 
The Petitioner submitted the following evidence in support of this criterion: 
• A screenshot from the Department of Labor's online Occupational Outlook Handbook 
indicating that the median hourly wage for actors in the United States in 2018 was $1 7.54. 
• Screenshots from CareerOneStop providing salaries for actors in the .__ ______ __. 
Metro area" and the United States. 
• Screenshots from the Department of Labor's ONet Online website indicating that the 2019 
median hourly wage for actors in the United States is $20 .43. 
• A "Model Job Sheet" issued by.__ ________________ _,showingthat 
she earned gross (pre-commission) modeling fees of HK$155,000 between June and October 
2008 for fashion and beauty editorials and a photo shoot. 
• Her Russian "Statement on Physical Person's Income for year of 2013" (with English 
translation) showing total income ofF8510000 paid to her by I I 
Evidence regarding whether an individual's compensation is high relative to that of others working in 
the field may take many forms, and it is the Petitioner's burden to provide appropriate evidence, which 
may include geographical and position-appropriate salary surveys or similar data. 8 In addition, 
individuals who have worked in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics 
or comparable evidence in those countries, rather than by simply conve1iing the salary to U.S. dollars 
and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. 9 
Here, the Petitioner requested that USCIS compare her 20081 I currency earnings and her 
2013 Russian currency earnings to average or median U.S. salary figures from2018 and 2019, which 
as noted above, do not provide an appropriate basis for comparison. While the Depa1iment of Labor 
resources she provided can be useful in evaluating evidence submitted under this criterion, they are 
only helpful for comparison when a petitioner provides evidence of her earnings in the United States, 
which was not the case here. The Petitioner did not previously provide any comparative salary or 
wage data for the countries in which she reported her earnings. Further, thel learnings she 
documented from 2008 did not include salary or remuneration for acting work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides new salary data for actors working in I I Russia from 
Salary Expert.com. The Petitioner's 2013 earnings from Russian company 'I I are high in 
comparison to the "average" and "senior level salary" figures provided in this survey. However, the 
record does not contain any other information or evidence related to I I Therefore, even if 
we consider this new evidence offered on appeal, we cannot determine whether or to what extent the 
income the Petitioner received from I I in 2013 was paid to her as salary or other 
remuneration for acting work. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that she also provided deal memos relating to her work in the United States. 
With one exception, all of this work was to be completed in 2020 or later, subsequent to the filing of 
the petition in December 2019, and therefore cannot establish that she had commanded a high salaty 
or other significantly high remuneration as of the date of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and 
8 See USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,supra, at 7. 
9 Id. 
continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). A deal memo froltj !indicates 
that the Petitioner was to receive $5,000 per day for a two-day video shoot that was tentatively 
scheduled for late November 2019, but it was not accompanied by evidence that she had completed 
the shoot or been paid for this work as of the date of filing. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in thatindividualrecordofproceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been enoneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593,597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng 'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090(6thCir.1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493438 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we dismissed the appeal. We 
determined that the Petitioner met the requisite initial evidentiary requirements but concluded in a 
final merits determination that he did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a motion to reconsider , which we also dismissed. The matter is now before us on 
a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l)(i), which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous 
motion to reconsider. The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant 
reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that although he met the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small 
percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(2). 
In the prior motion to reconsider, the Petitioner argued that we overlooked or did not properly weigh 
certain evidence related to the awards, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v). He asse1ied that pro per consideration of that evidence should have resulted 
in a conclusion in the final merits dete1mination that he established his sustained acclaim and 
placement among the small percentage of at the very top of his field. In dismissing the motion to 
reconsider, we considered each of his claims in tum and explained how our appellate decision did in 
fact address the specific evidence he claimed had been overlooked. We observed that while the 
Petitioner may have disagreed with our assessment of that evidence, he did not establish that we had 
2 
overlooked it in adjudicating his appeal, or that we had misapplied law or users policy in our 
evaluation of such evidence. Finally, we acknowledged the Petitioner's request that we consider new 
evidence submitted for the first time in support of his motion to reconsider. We did not consider the 
new evidence, emphasizing that a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord atthe time of the initial decision. See 8 e.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief in which he repeats nearly verbatim the same 
arguments made in his brief in support of his first motion to reconsider. Specifically, the Petitioner 
once again claims that we failed to consider certain evidence he submitted in support of the awards, 
judging and original contributions criteria at 8 e.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v) in adjudicating his 
appeal. As noted, these claims were acknowledged and thoroughly addressed in our decision 
dismissing the previous motion. The Petitioner makes no reference to the merits of that decision but 
rather focuses on our appellate decision, which is not before us in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner cannot meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with 
our conclusions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter 
of 0-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging 
error in the prior decision.) 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not argue that we incorrectly applied law or users policy by dismissing 
his motion to reconsider. Most of the Petitioner's brief in supp mi of the current motion is devoted to 
a criticism of users policy guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant 
petitions.1 This criticism includes a rejection ofUSeTS' reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting 
a multi-part analysis that includes a final merits determination. The Petitioner nevertheless 
acknowledges that the referenced guidance is established agency policy and does not articulate a claim 
that we misapplied this policy in our adjudication of his prior motion to reconsider. Rather, the 
Petitioner maintains that we erred in our adjudication of the appeal by adhering to Kazarian and 
applicable users policy. 
Specifically, the Petitioner argues that "it is an abuse of discretion for users to rely on Kazarian for 
the final merits analysis," particularly because the petitioner in Kazarian, unlike the Petitioner here, 
did not satisfy at least three of the criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and because "Kazarian 
mentions the concept of a final merits detennination merely in passing and does not explain or provide 
a structural framework for such a determination." He fmiher argues that "[i]nstead, the weighing of 
the quality and credibility of evidence should be guided by prior federal court decisions." The 
Petitioner specifically highlights Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994 ), noting that 
"the nature and scheme of the analysis articulated by Buletini most closely adheres to the plain 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
3 
meaning of the statute and regulations."2 The Petitioner therefore maintains that we should have 
applied Buletini, a pre-Kazarian district court decision, in adjudicating his appeal. 
We note, however, that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United 
States district court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1993 ). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration 
when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. 
Id.at 719. 
Regardless, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization 
of the adjudication process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates 
that the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria 
and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and substantiated 
reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject 
at any time the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification. Further, as already 
discussed, the Petitioner's assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian 
federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not 
persuasive. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, he does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. 
As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. § 
103 .5(a)( 4) requires dismissal of the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ I 03.5(a)(2). Although the Petitioner indicated on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
that he was filing a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , the Petitioner has neither 
presented new facts in his brief nor submitted any documentary evidence in support of the instant 
motion. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
2 In addition to Buletini, the Petitioner cites Muni v INS, 891 F Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995),Racine v. INS, 995 U.S. Dist. 
LEXIS 4336, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965 (N.D. Ill. 1996), Russell v. 
INS,2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 52 (E.D. Ill. Jan.4,200l)andGu/en v. Chernoff, l 980U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54607 (E.D. Pa. Jul 
16, 2008), noting that "[h]adAAO in this case incorporated the correct analysis from cases that preceded Kazarian, AAO 
would be bound to conclude that the Petitioner ... has met the 'preponderance of the evidence' standard." As discussed 
in this decision, we are not bound to follow the published decisions ofa district court. 
4 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his prior motion to reconsider. The motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15745430 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously held lecturer positions at the University of I I and c:==J 
International University of Science and Technology I I. Since 2018, he has worked ate=] 
c=Juniversity I [ under a contract as a "Temporary Faculty Member." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner initially claimed a one-time achievement, in the form of a plaque from ~I-~ 
recognizing his contributions to organizing a conference there. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that a recognition plaque from his employer is a major, internationally 
recognized award. The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion or pursue this claim on 
appeal, and therefore we consider this issue to be waived. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, numbered (iv), (vi), and (viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, numbered (ii) and (v). The Petitioner 
does not dispute the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria numbered (i), (iii), and (ix), and 
therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived those claims. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion, but we disagree. 
Initially, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a leadership and critical role in several tertiary 
institutions," which is not the regulatory standard. No institution of any kind is presumed to have a 
distinguished reputation simply because of the type of institution that it is. The burden is on the Petitioner 
to submit evidence to establish that reputation. 
The Petitioner states that he "taught several courses" at universities inl I and the United States. 
Universities, however, employ many teachers at several organizational levels, even relying on graduate 
students to teach some undergraduate courses. The Petitioner does not establish that his roles, in 
particular, were leading or critical. We note that the Petitioner does not establish that he has held a high 
rank, such as the leader of an academic department. Rather, he was an exchange scholar at the University I ~nd a lecturer at the other universities, including at ~ where he currently works under a 
short-term contract. 
The Petitioner also points to his work with numerous professional institutions and societies, the most 
prominent of which appears to be his role as international coordinator of the I I I I He has served other organizations in roles he describes 
as "workshop coordinator," "regular international speaker," and "conference coordinator." Some of these 
roles appear to be incidental rather than leading or critical at the organizational level. Furthermore, 
regarding his most significant roles, the Petitioner did not identify any supporting evidence to establish 
that the organizations or establishments have distinguished reputations in comparison to other entities of 
the same type. Reputation, defined as "a place in public esteem or regard," or "overall quality or character 
as seen or judged by people in general," is a function of "recognition by other people" rather than self­
description. 2 As a result, the Petitioner cannot establish an organization's distinguished reputation by 
submitting statements and promotional materials from within that organization. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
2 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reputation (last visited Apr. 5, 2021). 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims six qualifying memberships: 
• American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE); 
• Botswana Engineers Registration Board (ERB); 
• South African Institute of Civil Engineers (SAICE); 
• Botswana Institution of Engineers (BIE); 
• Counsel for Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN); and 
• Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE). 
Two of the named entities (ERB and COREN) are not associations. Rather, they are registration boards. 
As such, the Petitioner does not hold memberships in these organizations. Rather, he holds professional 
credentials issued by those boards. 
Copies of certificates document the Petitioner's membership in the ASCE, SAICE, BIE, and NSE, but 
these certificates do not establish the associations' membership requirements. The Petitioner has not 
submitted any information about the membership requirements for the BIE or NSE. 
The Petitioner listed the membership requirements for the ASCE and SAICE, and identified the online 
sources for this information. ASCE membership requires various combinations of academic degrees, 
experience, and licensure, or membership in another engineering society that has a reciprocal agreement 
with the ASCE. Associate membership in the SAICE requires either a graduate degree in civil 
engineering or "status in a profession which is comparable to that of a Member of the Institution." The 
Petitioner does not explain how these qualifications amount to outstanding achievements, nor does the 
Petitioner demonstrate that recognized national or international experts judge candidates for membership. 
The Petitioner has not established that his memberships satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
I faculty members state that the Petitioner's doctoral research Jed to I 7 
.__ ______ __,~' and other "innovative tools" used to maintain the 'I ~ 
Botswana, and that this work "has drawn attention in academic circles" and "is used to bridge the gap 
created by experimental limitations." The Petitioner does not submit first-hand evidence to show the 
extent of the model's implementation, and the extent of its impact on thel I 
Another I ~acuity member states that the Petitioner "directed and supervised more than ten senior 
research [projects] that addressed and proffer solutions to critical challenges in the transportation sector. 
The findings from these research projects have been recommended for implementation in the 
transportation industry in the United States of America." The letter includes no details about the projects, 
the challenges they address, or the solutions they propose. There is no evidence that the industry has 
4 
actually adopted the recommendations. Also, the projects in question were apparently student projects 
that the Petitioner supervised in his teaching role, rather than his own contributions. 
After the Director requested evidence to show that the Petitioner's contributions have had an impact 
beyond benefit to his employers, the Petitioner submitted additional letters. facul member 
asserts that the Petitioner "made several important, new recommendations to existin _,_ _____ __. 
standards and maintenance manuals," which "are being implemented in developing countries." This 
general assertion does not directly document the extent of the Petitioner's influence on his field. 
ro · ect of the Petitioner's that received special attention is the first 
eve t-t,,....,...'T,"TI.''t,\~~"1':cC::::.:o~n~fi~e:!.:re~n~c::!:'e:....:o~nc!. 
Transportation he organized and designed to advance knowledge as well as .... I ______ _.I The official also states: "Another 
networking." The record shows that the conference took place, but the major significance of the event is 
not self-evident. The conference was not a standalone event; it coincided with theD International 
Conference on Transportation, held ate=] in 2019. The record does not show "special attention" to 
the conference beyond its attendees. 
A former dean at .... l __ _.I who recruited the Petitioner for a lecturer position there, states: 
[The Petitioner's] work that I am most familiar with, and that has drawn widespread 
attention in academic and industry circles, involves optimizing the maintenance of 
I using a predictive model he developed taking into account weather 
.._c_o_n_d-it-i-on-s-,'l --~-,1 capacity, previous maintenance history and quality of materials 
used. His original research also defined a new innovative approach that used a common 
set of parameters and consistent methods to collect 
and record condition data .... I I an<ll I I O ,I have adopted his recommendations 
and are implementing them .... 
His models were also used in the academics and ublished b the 
. . . His models are also used in India and Spain respectively to.__ _____ ____. 
performance index for rating o~ I 
The letter quoted above does not cite or identify sources for these claims, and the individual who wrote 
the quoted letter has not established his authority to speak on behalf of those organizations. 
First-hand corroboration from the named entities is necessary to establish the nature and extent of their 
reliance on the Petitioner's work. An emeritus member of the~-------------~ 
states that he has "been associated with [the Petitioner] since 2015," but does not indicate how, or to what 
extent, the~ has relied on the Petitioner's work. Instead, he offers the general assertions that the 
Petitioner "is highly regarded by his peers" and that "[h ]is professional advice and recommendations are 
highly respected." 
To establish his influence on the fiel~etitioner submits copies of published articles and unpublished 
student theses that cite his work. ArL__Jfaculty member stated that the Petitioner's published work is 
5 
"widely cited" by researchers in five countries. A Google Scholar printout in the record shows that none 
of the Petitioner's publications has been cited more than three times. These figures do not indicate that 
the Petitioner's published work has been particularly influential in the field. 
The submitted citations of the Petitioner's work do not establish the significance of that work or 
demonstrate its widespread implementation as claimed. In some instances, the Petitioner submits only 
the bibliographies from the citing articles, which provide no context for the citations. Other citations 
simply describe the Petitioner's methods or list figures from his research. One of the submitted citations 
relates to a general statement about the economic importance of local innovation. Another citation is a 
self-citation by the Petitioner. Self-citation is an accepted practice because researchers often build upon 
their own past work, but it is not evidence of wider influence. 
While some of the submitted letters indicate that the Petitioner's work has been widely influential, the 
record does not sufficiently corroborate these largely general claims. The Petitioner has not established 
that his original contributions are of major significance in the field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Although we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets at least three of the 
underlying regulatory criteria, we will nevertheless briefly discuss the final merits determination because 
it was part of the Director's decision. The purpose of a final merits determination is to evaluate whether 
a petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he or she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The Director concluded that "[t]he petitioner's overall track record does not measure up to those of 
leading figures in the field." The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's publication of scholarly articles; 
his peer review of articles by others; and his activity as a judge of the work of graduate students working 
under his supervision. The Director determined, however, that this scholarly activity appears to be routine 
in the Petitioner's field. The Director stated that the Petitioner did not show how his authorship and peer 
review work distinguish the Petitioner in the field. 
We noted, above, the minimal citation of the Petitioner's published work. In the context of the final 
merits determination, it is also significant that the most recent article to have any citations appeared in 
2015. This indicates that the Petitioner's more recent work has attracted even less attention, which is 
significant with regard to the issue of sustained acclaim. 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
6 
With respect to the Petitioner's review of graduate student work, the Petitioner has not established how 
this activity distinguishes him from other university-level faculty. 
The Director stated that the Petitioner has not shown that his various university positions "resulted from 
or led to sustained national or international acclaim, or that these roles are indicative of a career of 
acclaimed work in the field." The record does not indicate thatc=J recruited the Petitioner based on his 
wider reputation in the field. Rather, the0official who recommended the Petitioner's hiring states 
that he has known the Petitioner for 20 years, since they were both students. That same official asserts 
that the Petitioner's "continued work in the field would be of tremendous benefit to the United States and 
his services will be in high demand," but the only evidence of demand for the Petitioner's services in the 
United States isDs one-year contract to employ the Petitioner as a "Temporary Faculty Member." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give enough weight and consideration to the 
evidence, particulaty le1ers describing the significance of the Petitioner's achievements. Those letters 
are primarily from faculty members and others who have worked directly with the Petitioner in 
various capacities. Their proximity to the Petitioner puts them in a position to provide details about the 
Petitioner's involvement in various projects, but their opinions about the Petitioner's work do not 
demonstrate sustained acclaim at the national or international level that this highly restrictive immigrant 
classification requires. A number of the letters contain general assertions about the Petitioner's standing 
in his field, but the record lacks consistent, objective evidence to support these claims. 
The Petitioner has been internationally active in his field, organizing conferences, chairing committees, 
and performing other work outside of his university faculty positions, but the evidence of record does not 
show that this activity either resulted in, or resulted from, sustained national or international acclaim as 
an individual at the very top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for 
individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14442636 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
The Petitioner, a computer hardware and software development company, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
had established that the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidence requirements, he did not demonstrate 
his eligibility for the classification. The Director determined that the record, as a whole, did not 
establish the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim or confirm that he was among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination and maintains that the Beneficiary 
qualifies for the classification . 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is a 
major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner! a computer hardware and software development company, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary, a I engineer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. As the record 
does not establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, his performance 
in a leading or critical role, and his receipt of a salary that is high in comparison to others in his field. 
We agree with the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled those criteria. 
Since the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary fulfills at least three criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
2 
asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criterion related to original contributions of 
major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . However, because the Petitioner has already 
established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, we will consider this 
evidence along with the totality of the record in the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he 
has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility . 
As a preliminary matter, we will address the Petitioner's claim that the Director's decision improperly 
considered evidence in the record regarding the Beneficiary's accomplishments -specifically, that in 
the final merits analysis the Director "only considers each criteria in a vacuum, instead of a whole." 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director misapplied Kazarian, arguing that the Director erroneously 
"reviewed each piece of evidence in isolation and was looking for each category of evidence to 
demonstrate international acclaim." Within the final merits analysis, however, we note that the 
Director's decision discussed the evidence relating to the Beneficiary's engineering contributions, 
publication record, salary, and the work rendered to his current and fonner employers , and explained 
why that evidence, as part of the entirety of the record, was insufficient to demonstrate the requisite 
sustained acclaim at the national or international level, or that the Beneficiary has risen to be one of 
the few at the very top of his field. Regardless of the Petitioner's concerns, we exercise de nova review 
of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 
2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in 
the initial decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved 
in the prior decision. 
The Beneficiary is ~ I testing engineer for the Petitioner. The rathat he received 
his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering fromOUniversity i India in 2006, and 
his master's degree in mechanical engineering from the University in 2010. As 
mentioned above, he meets the criteria for scholarly articles, leading or critical role, and high salary. 
At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3) . 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 
Regarding the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, the record reflects that the Beneficiary 
has authored six papers/articles in his area of expertise. We note, however, that publication of a 
beneficiary's research alone does not place one at the very top of the field. The Petitioner emphasizes 
that the publication of the Beneficiary's papers and articles in peer-reviewed journals have been cited 
25 times, and that he has presented his findings at national conferences. The record does not show 
that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at the very top of the field. Nor has the 
Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary's publication record is consistent with having a "career 
of acclaimed work." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the 
work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the 
Beneficiary's papers and articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his 
work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous 
independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his 
work has been recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by it. Such an analysis at 
the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
The Petitioner submitted the Beneficiary's Google Scholar citation history, reflecting 25 cumulative 
citations to four publications authored by him between 2008 and 2015. Specifically, the record shows 
that his highest cited article, published in Structural Dynamics, received 16 citations, with the 
remaining articles receiving four, three, and two citations, respectively . The remaining two articles 
authored by him in 2010 and 2015 garnered no citations. The Petitioner also notes that the total 
citations include independent citations from ten countries, which it claims establishes the Beneficiary's 
international recognition in the field. While the citations show that the field has noticed his work, he 
did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim in his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that the citations to the Beneficiary's research 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition to submitting evidence related to his publications, the Petitioner provided letters from four 
individuals it claims are "renowned experts" who have weighed in on the importance of the 
Beneficiary's research and methodologies, and asserts that the Director should have given more weight 
to letters from various individuals in the Petitioner's field.2 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national 's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. The Petitioner's selection of 
individuals who are familiar with the Beneficiary's work does not necessarily demonstrate that his 
work is sufficiently well known so as to be consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The letters submitted appear to be from former colleagues and other engineers regarding the 
Beneficiary's contributions in the field. While these letters discuss his contributions to certain 
projects, showing how highly regarded he is among those who have worked with him, this evidence 
does not establish that he has national or international acclaim in the field. For example,! I 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
I I Senior Technical Advisor/Director forl la client of the Beneficiary's former 
employer, discusses the Beneficiary's work on a pro/· ect related to the development of the I ~ I I of I I engines. According tol . the Beneficiary and his team were tasked with 
developing a solution to remedy.__ _____ __, in engine test cells, noting that the Beneficiary 
conducted structural testing and developed a methodology that solved the "critical restraints" that were 
hindering its testing efforts and potentially damaging its testing facility. I I concludes that 
without the Beneficiar 's contributions, the continued development ofthel . t engines, 
used in the indust , would have been delayed and potentially catastrophic. I I I I Director of.__ _______ ___,, states that he previously supervised the Beneficiary 
during the Beneficiary's employment with the company in the position of I I 
engineer. 3 I I states that the Beneficiary and his team conducted structural analysis for 
various power plants during his tenure with the company, noting that his work led to the identification 
of the root-cause of various within th;,,........i..!.Ll.l.LI..I.IJ~:l..LLILl<.U.....ld..lJ.l..lJ~.L...J.u,•eir continued 
operation. l....,....-___,,,,....-r-----1--__J retired Space Shuttle S stems and 
Safety Engineer for notes that the Beneficiary's paper entitled 
presented at the .__ _____ _. 
'----~ Conference and Exhibition in 2015, addressed a critical gap in the engineering work flow, 
and was the first of its kind to discuss the complexities of the engine test cell. He further states that 
the paper is "a valuable reference," and that the Beneficiary "will undoubtedly continµe to produce 
significant work that will influence other researchers in academia and industry." Finally,L I I l Research Engineer (2008-2019) fo~ I 
in Denmark, discusses his collaboration with the Beneficiary on various projects in the field of 
structural dynamics, noting that he mentored the Beneficiary during his master's level studies. 
According td I he co-authored three papers with the Beneficiary, which formed a major 
part of the Beneficiary's master's degree thesis work at the University I I and "laid the 
foundation for his career." I I concludes that these papers validated his own doctoral 
research work, and notes that the Beneficiary has "consistently been making groundbreaking finds in 
his field." 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's publications and contributions to his field demonstrates 
that he is an accomplished mechanical engineer, specializing in the field ofl I 
engineering, who garnered a level of recognition in the private sector for implementation of 
appropriate solutions to remedy structural I I issues for various clients. While the letters 
summarize and praise the Beneficiary's research and original contributions, the authors do not explain 
how the Beneficiary's research, contributions, and publications in this area have resulted in his being 
recognized as among the small percentage of similar engineers in his field who have achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim as evidenced through extensive documentation. While we 
acknowledge the Beneficiary's skillset in his industry, the record has not shown that he has received 
national or international acclaim for his work on these projects. The letters do not provide sufficient 
information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show 
that the Beneficiary is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 According to the Beneficiary's resume, he was employed by from February 2010 to July 2012. '--------~ 
5 
Further, although the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary has made contributions of major 
significance in the field of engine test cells, it did not demonstrate that he has had remarkable influence 
in the overall field. While it appears that the Beneficiary's work in the private sector proved beneficial 
to the various clients for whom he rendered solutions, the record is devoid of evidence that such 
solutions and methodologies have been widely accepted and implemented beyond the individual client 
projects to which he was assigned during the course of his career. Although the recommendation 
letters summarize the Petitioner's research and findings, they do not sufficiently establish that his 
original contributions are already recognized as majorly significant, nor do they demonstrate that he 
is among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim. For instance,! Is letter indicates that he co-authored three of the 
Beneficiary's six publications, and notes that these papers formed the basis of the Beneficia~ 
master's thesis while simultaneously validating I l's doctoral research findings. LJ I ~oes not address whether the Petitioner's findings have been utilized by other engineers or 
researchers in the field, and if so, the extent of their application. Further, his letter does not explain or 
justify how the Beneficiary's research in this area has resulted in his belonging, as he asserts, "to the 
special group of extraordinary researchers in the multidisciplinary field of structural dynamics." 
In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the or critical role in its 
organization or for his former employer, L....r-------,.._ _______ ____...1 has resulted in 
sustained national or i,,_u.<.1...U.~I.LLIJ~~""""""-LLLLo...l....----..,___J, a company principal and mechanical 
engineer specializing i '-------------~ states that the Beneficiary worked as Lead I I Engineer for the company from 2012 to 2015, during which time re worked OD more than 
20 projects at several major engine manufacturers across the United States. I states that 
the Beneficiary used his technical ex ertise "to develo a com rehensiv strategy for 
the company, termed as '-------------------~' which was "successfully 
implemented in several ongoing projects." As a result of this plan, and his work on various client 
projects during the course of his employment,! I states that the Beneficiary's efforts 
"resulted in reduced equipment failures at engine manufacturing facilities, thereby! savinf, hundreds of 
thousands of dollars in repairs and downtime for the clients and warranty costs for ' While these 
are notable accomplishments, the record does not show how these successes have resulted in national 
or international acclaim for the Beneficiary. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding his critical role with the Petitioner, the record reflects that the Beneficiary is currently 
employed in the position ofl I engineer. According to the Petitioner's U.S. 
Immigration ManagerJ I the Beneficiary applies his background in structural analysis 
and system integration to "com lete root cause analysis of structural issues across all [Petitioner] 
designed hardware." farther states that the Beneficia was one of the first hardware 
en ineers at the com an to ' 
________ ___,~--7----------.----.----~ and that his work has been used "year 
over year to improve th.__ __ _.performance of~_~devices and tune thd , l to provide 
an optimal user experience." She concludes by stating that the Beneficiary's "work on unreleased 
future projects and technology is critical in the development phase of these new products." Again, 
while the Beneficiary's contributions are noteworthy and undoubtedly are beneficial to the Petitioner's 
operations, the record does not show how these accomplishments have resulted in national or 
international acclaim. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
6 
The Petitioner farther points to the Beneficiary's high salary in his field, and the signing bonus and 
restricted stock units it extended to him upon his hiring, noting that such compensation was awarded 
to him on "on the basis of his extraordinary ability and expertise." While a high salary may 
demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the field, the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence showing that his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
who are already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's academic, 
scholarly, research, and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16699913 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at 
least three. The Petitioner appealed the matter and we dismissed the appeal. 1 The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we dismissed as 
untimely, followed by two additional combined motions, which we also dismissed. The matter is 
now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-2 90B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5( a)( 1 ). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 SeeMatterofE-G-, ID# 1668798(AAOOct.25,2018) . 
II. ANALYSIS 
The primary issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss 
her third combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or 
users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
The record reflects that we issued our initial decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal on 
October 25, 2018. The Petitioner filed her first combined motion on Thursday, November 29, 2018, 
3 5 days after the decision was issued. A motion must be filed within 3 3 calendar days of the date 
users served the unfavorable decision by mail. See 8 e.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), 103.8(b). 
When computing the period of time for filing an appeal or motion users counts every calendar day 
(including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) starting the first calendar day after the date users 
mailed the unfavorable decision. If the last day of the 33-day filing period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, 
or a legal holiday, the period to file an appeal runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, 
Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 e.F.R. § 1.2. 
Here, we informed the Petitioner that any motion to reopen and/or reconsider our appellate decision 
must be filed within 33 days of our decision dated October 25, 2018. The due date for the Petitioner's 
motion was Tuesday, November 27, 2018, and this date did not fall on a weekend or legal holiday. 
Accordingly, we dismissed the Petitioner's motion, filed on November 29, 2018, as untimely. 
The Petitioner has consistently argued on three subsequent motions that 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) 
allows for a 30-day period to file a motion, and because the 30th day in her case fell on Saturday, 
November 24, 2018, her motion was due on Monday, November 26, 2018. She has further maintained 
that since our decision was mailed, 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) provided her with an additional three days, and 
therefore her motion was due on Thursday, November 29, 2019, or 35 days after the date we issued 
our decision. 
In dismissing the most recent motion, we emphasized that the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) 
provides that whenever a person has the right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period 
after the service of a notice upon them and the notice is served by mail, three days shall be added to 
the prescribed period. Because we mailed our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, she was not 
required to file her motion within 30 days. Rather, her prescribed period to submit a motion was 
automatically extended to 33 days. 
We emphasized that this 33-day filing period was clearly communicated to her when our appellate 
decision was issued, and the 33rd day fell on Tuesday, November 27, 2018. As the last day of the 
filing period did not fall on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 1.2 was 
not applicable to our evaluation of whether the Petitioner's initial motion was timely. Accordingly, 
we determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that we incorrectly applied this or any other 
regulation or users policy to the facts of her case or dismissed her previous combined motion in 
error. 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner states: 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a) spells out a 30-day period for filing of a motion to reopen and/or 
motion to reconsider. It does not state 3 3 days or add the three days for mailing first, 
nor does it provide for any other period. In this case, the 30th day fell on a Saturday, 
November 24, 2018. This is a fact and AAO admitted that the three days were added 
to the date ofNovember24,2018. 
The Petitioner maintains that "it is an error to disregard that the computing period shall run until 
Monday, November 26, 2018, under 8 C.F.R. § 1.2." She further argues that "AAO has no authority 
to automatically add the three days for mailing without verifying if the prescribed period falls on a 
weekend or a holiday. Disregarding 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 is a failure to properly interpret the code." 
With respect to the Petitioner's assertion that we have no authority to extend the filing period to 33 
days, we emphasize that such authority derives from 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b ). USCIS' interpretation of 
that regulation as automatically adding three days to the filing period for appeals and motions in cases 
where our decision is served by mail is stated in the USCJS Policy Manuaf2 and the AAO Practice 
Manual. 3 Further we did not "disregard" the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 in this case. We determined 
that it did not apply because the last day of the 33-day filing period applicable to this motion did not 
fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. 
While the Petitioner continues to disagree that 8 C.F.R. § 103 .8(b) automatically extends the 
prescribed period for filing motions and appeals to 33 days, she has not pointed to any instance in 
which USCIS has adopted a different interpretation of this regulation or otherwise supported her claim 
that it was incorrectly applied here. 
Nor has she otherwise provided support for her claim that 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 should apply to the 30-day 
filing period provided by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(i) rather than the 33-day filing period provided by 8 
C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8), which applied in this case. The extension of the filing period contemplated by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 applies only when the last day of a '"computed"period for taking action 
falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. Here, the period computed for the Petitioner to file a 
motion on our decision that was served by mail on October 25, 2018 was 33 days, with the 33rd day 
falling on Tuesday, November 27, 2018. 
Finally, in our decision dismissing the Petitioner's second motion, we noted that she had cited to 8 
C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h ), which is applicable to appeals that fall under the jurisdiction of the Board of 
Immigration Appeals, rather than the nearly identical regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2, which is applicable 
to appeals before our office. In the previous motion, the Petitioner referred to a non-precedent 
2 Sec 6 USCJS Policy Manual J.5, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual(statingthat the petitioner must file the appeal or 
motion within 3 0 days oft he denial or dismissal, or 3 3 days if the denial or dismissal decision was sent by mail," and citing 
to 8 C.F.R. I 03.5(a)(l )(i)and8 C.F.R. I 03.8(b)). 
3 SeeAAOPracticeManual, Ch. 4.6(c), https://www.uscis.gov/aao-practice-manual(statingthat "[a]ppellants must file a 
motion within 30 days of the unfavorable decision (or33 days if the decision is mailed)" and that "[i]fa notice is served 
by mail, three days are automatically added to the stated period to perform the specified act" citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b)). 
3 
decision, noting that "AAO has previously sustained matters relying on 8 C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h)." We 
emphasized in our decision dismissing the third motion that the referenced decision was not published 
as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(c ). 
In her brief in support of this motion, the Petitioner asserts that "AAO was mandated by United States v. 
Granderson, 511 U.S. 39, 56, 114 S.Ct. 1259, 127 L.Ed.2d 611 (1994) to interpret the code consistently." 
She states that "if AAO has previously adjudicated a case relying on 8 C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h), absent the 
reversal of the non-precedent decision, it should have interpreted the code consistently." We note that 
the Petitioner in this matter, unlike the applicant in the non-precedent decision referenced above, did not 
have a prescribed filing period for her initial motion that ended on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, 
and neither the regulation at 8 C.F.R § 1.2 or 8 C.F.R. § 1001. l(h) applies. Based on the facts presented, 
the outcome of this matter was not inconsistent with the outcome in the cited non-precedent decision. 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss her third motion to reopen and reconsider 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider 
will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
Although the Petitioner indicates that she is concurrently filing a motion to reopen, she has not 
presented new facts or evidence for consideration in this proceeding and has not met the requirements 
of a motion to reopen at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14278047 
Appeal of California Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, ~ L seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the California Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
the decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is ac=J who has performed individually and with multiple ensembles. The Petitioner 
studied atl I Conservatory and the I I Academy, and currently resides in D I !where he is pursuing career opportunities as a performer, composer, and recording artist. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
two of the evidentiary criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with this determination, as the record demonstrates that the Petitioner 
served as a voting member for the Grammy Awards on behalf of the Recording Academy, as well as 
a juror for the ~------------------------~ Orchestra and 
SoundtRec.com, and farther demonstrates that he displayed his work by performing at various artistic 
and musical venues. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria, 
discussed below. 1 We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that he met the lesser awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the commercial 
success criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Although the Director addressed the evidentiary deficiencies regarding these 
criteria in the previous decisions, the Petitioner has not pursued these claims on appeal. Accordingly, we will not further 
address these criteria. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiWs claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). While we would consider this evidence in a final merits 
determination per Kazarian, 596 F .3d I I 15, we have determined that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary 
requirements and will therefore not reach a final merits determination. 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must show that material has been published, 
that the material is about him and his work in the field for which classification is sought, and that it 
was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In this case, the 
Petitioner provided numerous articles from vanous online publications including 
www.kibrispostasi.com, southcoastoday. com, yemas1r. com. tr, yenisafak. com, hurriyet. com. tr, 
hurriyetdailynews.com, dha.com.tr, sabah.com.tr, and radikal.com.tr, along with print articles from 
publications including Cypress Today and Hurriyet Newspaper/Kelebek (Cumartesi). The Petitioner 
also submitted screenshots and a transcript from youtube.com of a television program it claims aired 
on Turkish Radio and Television (TRT) in 2019. 
The plain language of this regulatory criterion requires that the published material be "about the 
individual." With regard to the article published by South Coast Today, this article is aboutLJ I I and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. Articles that are not about an alien do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
We agree with the Petitioner that the remaining articles published by the above-referenced online 
publications contain sufficient references to and quotes from the Petitioner to qualify 
as published material about him and his work. However, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner provided information about these publications 
from SimilarWeb pertaining to their rankings and viewing statistics. Although he provided evidence 
relating to general Internet traffic estimators, the Petitioner did not show the significance of those 
publications' viewing statistics or explain how such information reflects status as major media.2 For 
example, the Petitioner did not show that the total visits or viewing statistics are high compared to 
other websites in the field. Although the size of each publication's online audience is noted, the 
Petitioner did not provide comparative circulation statistics or rankings to indicate that any of these 
publications has a widespread viewership or traffic rate on a national or international level. 
With respect to the articles from Cyprus Today and Hurriyet Newspaper/Kelebek (Cumartesi), which 
were published in their print editions, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish 
that they qualify as major trade publications, professional publications or other major 
media. 3 Regarding the Cyprus Today article, the Petitioner relies on an excerpt from the website 
www.pressreference.com, which provides general information and basic data about the Republic of 
Cyprus. According to the document, the Republic of Cyprus has eight daily newspapers; however, 
Cyprus Today is not listed as one of these press or news agencies. Although the Petitioner highlights 
a statistic that states total circulation is 46,000, it appears that this statistic reflects the collective 
circulation of the Republic's eight daily newspapers, and not that of Cyprus Today. In fact, this 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 See id. 
3 
document makes no specific reference to Cyprus Today or its circulation, such that we can determine 
the publication's status as major media. 
With regard to the article featured in Hurriyet N ewspaper/Kelebek ( Cwnartesi), the Petitioner submits 
a document entitled "Medya Radar," which appears to be a weekly circulation report for a period 
defined as "March 16 to March 22" for 14 newspapers, including Hurriyet. No year is provided, and 
the source of this document is not identified. Although the document indicates Hurriyet ranks 3rd on 
the list, it did not show the significance of these rankings and circulation statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as ma·or media. On a eal the Petitioner rovided a co of a document 
entitled '-----~----------,------------------------'' a Reuters 
Institute Fellowship Paper published in 2016. Although the Petitioner asserts that this document 
provides relevant information regarding Hurriyet 's status as major media, this paper focuses mainly 
on advertising trends. While we acknowledge that the report includes a reproduced chart attributed to 
the Nielsen Company which demonstrates Turkish newspaper circulation numbers and "total space 
distribution" for the period from 2011-2015, this chart alone does not show the significance of these 
numbers or explain how such information reflects status as major media. Moreover, the Hurriyet 
article discussed here was written in 2011, thereby rendering statistical data for future circulation 
period irrelevant. 
The Petitioner also submits screenshots and a transcript of a television interview he claims aired on 
TRT in 2019. The screenshots submitted, however, demonstrate that the video was streamed on 
youtube.com, via what appears to be TRT' s Y ouTube channel. The Petitioner, however, did not show 
that either TRT, or TRT's YouTube channel, constitutes major media. As evidence, the Petitioner 
provided an excerpt from TRT World's website, which states that it is the "national public broadcaster 
of Turkey." However, the Petitioner did not submit independent, probative evidence to support the 
broadcaster's claims. Absent additional evidence, this information from the broadcaster's own 
website is insufficient to demonstrate that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 
(9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover 
of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). Furthermore, it is unclear whether the 
interview was broadcast on TRT as a television show, or solely on TRT's YouTube channel. 
Regardless, the record is insufficient to establish that either TRT, or TRT's YouTube channel, 
constitute major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that our treatment of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
is inconsistent, as his receipt of 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants 
of extraordinary ability, was based on the same set of documentary evidence currently before us. The 
Petitioner contends that as a result of these prior approvals, this criterion has previously been 
established. Extraordinary ability in the nonimmigrant context, however, means distinction, which is 
not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. Section 101 (a)( 46) of the Act explicitly 
modifies the criteria for the 0-1 extraordinary ability classification in such a way that makes the 
nonimmigrant 0-1 criteria less restrictive for an individual in the arts, and thus less restrictive than the 
criteria for immigrant classification pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, while 
USCIS has previously approved 0-1 nonimmigrant petitions for the Petitioner, the prior approvals do 
not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
4 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law.4 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation [ emphasis added]." In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself: 
and a critical role is one in which the petitioner was responsible for the success or standing of the 
organization or establishment. 
A review of the record of proceedings reflects that the Petitioner claimed eli ibilit for this criterion 
based on his various erformances with or anizations such as the Philharmonic 
Orches .................... ......__--,. ___ ___J Opera, th ..._ _______________ ~Philharmonic, 
and the.__ ___ __, Orchestra. While the Petitioner submitted testimonial letters from directors and 
producers of these organizations confirming his participation in various performances, they do not 
reflect that he performed in a leading or critical role. For example, the letters submitted claim that he 
performed as I I However, the Petitioner provided no information regarding the number 
otj I or the total number of musicians, that participated in each performance, such that we can 
ascertain his rank and position within each symphony or orchestra. In denying the petition the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his role was leading or critical to theD 
section, let alone to the orchestras or symphonies as a whole, noting that "in an orchestra the leading 
musical role is generally held by the Concertmaster or first violin." 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination, and notes that despite having 
multiple musicians on stage, "a solo performance within the entire concert may bring about the entire 
success solely attributed to a particular musician." The Petitioner asserts that his solo performances 
have attributed to the high degree of success of various concerts in which he performed. Again, 
however, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to corroborate these claims, as the record contains 
no evidence that differentiates his role from the other I I or other routine performers in 
subordinate roles within the given symphonies, orchestras, and ensemble performances. Absent 
documentation showing otherwise, we are not persuaded that the Petitioner, or every performer in a 
concert setting for that matter, performs in a leading or critical role. 
The Petitioner also maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on his creation of an original score 
to accompany a three-minute promotional video for the University! I I ]Institute. According to a letter from~ I 1e Petitioner "has been 
overwhelmingly critical to the continued success of th .__ ______ ____,_ Institute and has played 
4 The Petitioner also claims that the same evidence was deemed acceptable to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) in a prior immigrant petition for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability, which was ultimately 
withdrawn prior to adjudication. While the Petitioner's assertion is noted, it must be noted that in making a determination 
of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(16)(ii). 
5 
a leading a critical role in upholding the reputation of an elite institution likel The Petitioner 
submitted a screenshot of the promotional video, crediting the Petitioner with providing the music for 
this video. Although the Petitioner claims his work on this video demonstrates he performed in a 
leading and critical role, there is insufficient evidence to corroborate this claim. For example, the 
letter froml I indicates that the Petitioner "worked well" with the Institute's IT team in 
helping to create the video. Absent evidence pertaining to the organizational hierarchy of this team 
and the Petitioner's position therein, we cannot determine that his role was leading or critical as 
contemplated by this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the submitted letter does not describe in 
sufficient detail the extent of the Petitioner's role in creating this video, or how his role has been 
critical to the Institute's reputation. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner relies heavily on the testimonial letters submitted on his behalf: 
noting that they constitute "expert statements" from "world-renowned musicians." While the 
statements in these letters are noted, they are not accompanied by corroborating documentary that 
distinguishes the Petitioner's role from his fellow lor musical performers. We are not persuaded 
by vague, solicited letters that simply repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how the 
Petitioner's roles were leading or critical. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations 
does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 
1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), c~ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 
WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). The lack of supporting evidence gives us no basis to gauge the 
significance of the roles performed by the Petitioner. 
As the Petitioner is d lit is expected that he will perform the routine duties of~ I to perform 
on stage or in front of an audience. However, merely performing, even if the performance is 
considered noteworthy, does not equate to a leading or critical role. Although the testimonial letters 
generally praise his skilled performances and attribute large crowd attendance and sold out shows to 
his rork. there is no evidence demonstrating how the Petitioner's roles differentiated him from the 
otheii. I or other musicians in general. Without evidence establishing that the Petitioner 
performed in a leading or critical role, it is insufficient to simply submit documentary evidence 
reflecting that he performed as a flutist in a concert setting. 
We further note that even if the Petitioner were to submit supporting documenta evidence showing 
that his roles with the Orchestra, F"-----1-- __ _J Opera, the 
.__ ________________ __, Philharmonic, and the'-----~ Orchestra meet the 
elements of this criterion, which he has not, the record does not demonstrate that these organizations 
have distinguished reputations. The Petitioner submitted excerpts from the organizations' websites, 
such as the "About Us" page for the.__ _______ _. Orchestra, and claims that these documents 
establish the organizations' distinguished reputations. As noted previously in this decision, we need 
not rely on self-promotional material. Cf Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ~ff d 317 Fed. Appx. 
680 (C.A.9) (concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of 
a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). The unsupported assertions of the Petitioner 
and the self-promotional material from the organizations' websites is not sufficient to demonstrate that 
the organizations have a distinguished reputation. 
Again, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the 
alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
6 
distinguished reputation." The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that he meets every element of 
this criterion. The Petitioner did not establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation consistent with the plain language 
of this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. Here , the Petitioner 
did not establish the total amount of salary or remuneration he has earned. The Petitioner submitted 
various contracts for his services, primarily for one-time performances where he would earn varying 
amounts of flat-rate compensation ranging from $350 to $3,000. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
copies of three 1099 forms from 2018, demonstrating that he earned a total of $7,400 for his services 
that year. He also provided evidence in the form of PayPal and Zelle transaction receipts, 
demonstrating total earnings in the amount of $870 pursuant to contractual agreements for one-time 
performances in 2019. 
The Petitioner did not submit sufficient comparative evidence demonstrating that the contracted 
amounts per engagement is significantly higher than the remuneration of otherl I Rather, he 
provides evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Foreign Labor Certification, 
demonstrating that the mean salary for a musician in the Petitioner's geographical area from July 2019 
to June 2020 was $39.01 per hour, or $81,141 annually. Although the Petitioner relies on this 
document as evidence that his hourly rate exceeds the mean hourly rate for musicians, he offers no 
basis for comparison showing that his compensation was significantly high "in relation to others in 
the field," which in this case isl 15 While the Petitioner has provided documentation of hourly 
and annual compensation for the field, the record lacks evidence of his own hours worked or his total 
annual compensation. Without a proper basis for comparison and evidence showing his 
comprehensive earnings during a sustained period predating the filing of the petition ( such as an 
income tax return), we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
As noted briefly above, we note that USCIS has approved several 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions 
filed on behalf of the Petitioner. However, the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
5 The musicians occupational category on the submitted wage report includes both musicians and singers. 
7 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), he does not meet any additional criteria on 
appeal. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 6 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner's work as al I has brought praise for his experience and technical skill, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16716213 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a master mariner and specialist surveyor, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner: (1) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria; (2) seeks 
to continue working in the area of claimed extraordinary ability; and (3) would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States, as required. The Petitioner filed two combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. On both occasions, the Director granted the motions, withdrew the prior decision, and 
issued a new denial notice. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, finding that the 
Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, performing in a leading or critical role 
for distinguished organizations or establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and motion to reopen. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 
291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
The motion to reconsider was not accompanied by a statement regarding the basis for the motion. 
Although the Petitioner acknowledges our dismissal of his appeal in a letter accompanying the motion, 
the letter does not contain any reference to the specific findings made in our decision. In addition, the 
Petitioner's letter did not provide any new facts, and the motion to reopen was not accompanied by 
any new evidence. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) states, in pertinent part: "A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed." The instant motion consists of the above-referenced 
letter from the Petitioner. There is no reference made to the findings made in our decision and the 
specific deficiencies remarked upon therein, no new facts provided to support a motion to reopen, and 
no specific reasons stated for reconsideration.1 Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed for failing 
to meet the applicable requirements. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner also did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 
C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). Therefore, because the instant motion does not meet the applicable filing requirements listed in 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), it must also be dismissed for this reason. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16816380 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of computer science and information systems, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements 
for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we dismissed as 
untimely. 
The matter is now before us on a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner seeks reconsideration of our decision to dismiss the prior motion as untimely filed. She also 
submits new evidence in support of her motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will grant the motion to reconsider, in part, 
and dismiss it in part, and we will dismiss the motion to reopen. The dismissal of the Petitioner's 
appeal will not be disturbed, and the petition will remain denied. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submitthis evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets atleastthree of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly aiiicles ). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was based on an incon-ect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening the previous motion and/or established that our decision to 
dismiss that motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCTS policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four criteria, relating to memberships in 
associations that require outstanding achievements, judging the work of others in her field, original 
contributions of major significance, and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vi). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria relating 
to judging and authorship of scholarly articles but did not satisfy either of the other two criteria. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on May 2 7, 2020, afterreachingthe same conclusion. The Petitioner 
filed her previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider on July 29, 2020, 63 days after we issued 
our decision. 
2 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date USCIS mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirns 
(COVID-19) pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would 
be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable decision. We dismissed the Petitioner's prior 
motion as untimely in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2)(v)(B)(l) because it was not filed within 
60 days of the issuance of our decision on May 27, 2020. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that, since our decision dismissing the appeal was served by mail, 
the deadline for filing the motion should have included three additional days beyond the 60 calendar 
day deadline set forth in USCIS' guidance, in accordance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b). 
Specifically, she states "the guidance issued by USCIS in recognition of the corona virus pandemic 
made absolutely no mention 8 C.F.R. § 103 .8(b) was invalidated or not going to be recognized." The 
Petitioner therefore maintains thathermotion, received 63 days after we issued our appellate decision, 
should be considered timely filed. 
The Petitioner's assertions regarding the timeliness of her prior motion are persuasive. We will 
therefore grantthe motion to reconsider, in part, to address the merits ofherprevious combinedmotion 
to reopen and reconsider. With the cunentmotion, the Petitioner also submits new evidence, discussed 
below. The Petitioner has not, however, submitted new evidence that overcomes the grounds for 
dismissal of her appeal, nor has she demonstrated that our decision dismissing the appeal involved an 
inconect application of the law or USCIS policy. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen includes the following evidence related to the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii): 
• Evidence that she was elevated to the grade of Senior Member in the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in I O 12020; 
• Evidence that she was elected as a Full Member in Sigma Xi in 2020; 
• An email confirming her approval for membership as a Scientific and Technical Committee & 
Editorial Review Board member of the World Academy of Science, Engineering and 
Technology inl I 2020; and 
• A letter, dated November 5, 2020, welcoming her to the International Research Conference 
(IRC) Scientific and Technical Committee & Editorial Review Board on Computer and 
Information Engineering. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). While 
the referenced evidence is new, it relates to her recent professional achievements as of 2020. 
Therefore, this evidence cannot establish that the Petitioner had a qualifying membership in an 
association that requires outstanding achievements in her field when she filed this petition in August 
2018. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided evidence that she was a professional member of 
the IEEE. She does not contest our determination that she did not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on that membership. 
3 
The Petition~r's prior motion to reopen also included a July 2020 letter from her employerJ I 
.__ ____ _.JUniversity, indicating that she had recently been promoted and received tenure "as a 
result of her strong performance in the areas of teaching, scholarship and service." The letter describes 
a "rigorous vetting process" that included evaluations by peers and department colleagues, review by 
the university's Professional Practices Committee, and approval by the university's Board of Control. 
The Petitioner indicates that she is submitting the evidence for consideration under the evidentiazy 
criterion related to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v). She states 
that her promotion provides evidence of "additional recognition of [her] major significant 
contributions to her field" and "supports the notion that [her] original scientific work has been of major 
significance in her field." 
Although this evidence, like the evidence related to the membership criterion, is new, it cannot 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time she filed the petition, as her promotion occuned neady 
two years later. Nevertheless, the letter from her employer does not adequately support her claim that 
she received the promotion based on recognition for her original contributions of major significance 
in the field. The letter indicates that she was promoted based on her "strong performance" in 
"teaching, scholarship and service." 
For the reasons discussed, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner 
satisfied either the membership criterion or the original contributions criterion at the time she filed the 
petition. Accordingly, she has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of her appeal, and we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
In her brief in support of the prior motion to reconsider, the Petitioner argues that "the AAO has erred 
in concluding that [her] original scientific work has [not] made contributions ofma·or si ificance in 
the field." She contends that we "mistakenly overlooked a significant portion o s 
expert opinion letter" regarding that original work, "specifically the proposed.,-!======;--~ I !solution she created." The Petitioner quotes a partial paragraph of one o_..___ _ ____.s letters 
in which he describes this I !solution and notes that her "[ e ]xtensive simulation results 
showed that thel !solution exhibits a superior performance over existing methods." 
In dismissing the appeal, our analysis of the evidence the Petitioner submitted under the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) included a full-page discussion of a letter provided 
b~ lwho had previously served as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor. While we did not quote 
directly from the portion of the letter emphasized by the Petitioner on motion, our decision reflects 
that we considere~ Is statements regarding the Petitioner's development of I 
techniques and h~r publiytion of this work in conference proceedings in 
her field. Specifically, we acknowledged tha described the work in technical detail, indicated 
that the work was original and that it has generated some interest from others in the field as evidenced 
by the Petitioner's invitations to present it at conferences. However, we concluded that his letter did 
not demonstratJ bow 1r,e Petitioner's work has already impacted or influenced the field. We 
emphasized tha ___ _.~eferred in general terms to the promise and potential of the research and how 
it might be of future benefit. On motion, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed how we 
misapplied the law or USCIS policy in our analysis ofi f s letterorotherexpe1iopinion testimony 
4 
submitted in support of the original contributions criterion, or how we failed to give adequate 
consideration to this evidence. 
The Petitioner also maintains on motion that "because [her] scientific contribution is not a physical or 
patented discovery, where someone would specifically require her consent to utilize, it is quite difficult 
to obtain evidence to cmroborate that someone is actively utilizing the solution she created to solve 
theirl I issues." She also states that since "there is no readily available evidence to prove ... 
[her] work is actively being implemented or utilized in her field, the fact that her work was presented 
at least four prestigious conferences ... is a clear indicator that this major discovery warranted being 
shared with her peers." 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we considered evidence that the Petitioner had been invited to 
present her work at conferences, as well as evidence of her publication and citation record from Google 
Scholar. We noted that journal and conference publications alone are not sufficient to satisfy the 
original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that the research the 
Petitioner published and presented was demonstrated to be of "major significance." While the 
Petitioner claimed that her record of five publications and 23 total citations provided "direct evidence 
that her original scientific/scholarly work is a contribution in her field," we emphasized that she did 
not provide comparative evidence to show that any of her published aiiicles is highly cited by others 
in the field, or otherwise shown the work has had an influence or impact consistent with an original 
contribution of major significance. Although the Petitioner emphasizes her conference presentations 
again on motion, she does not argue that we overlooked this evidence or contend that we misapplied 
the law or USCIS policy in our evaluation of it. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our previous determination with 
respect to the original contributions criterion was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time 
of our decision, or that it involved an incorrect application of the law or USCIS policy to the facts 
presented. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established grounds for reconsideration of our decision 
dismissing her appeal. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We have granted the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, in part, in order to evaluate the merits of her 
initial combined motion to reopen and reconsider. We have also considered new evidence submitted 
in support of the instant motion to reopen. For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening or reconsideration of our appellate decision or otherwise established 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal will not be 
disturbed, and the petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16692207 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petlt10n, concluding that the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a photographer who has displayed his work at exhibits mainly in China and Europe. 
He s~ates that he w~sh_e~ to continuf to work as a photographer in the United States, with the goal of 
openmg an art stud10 ml._ ____ __._ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h )(3)(i)-(x ). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, published material about him and his work, the display of his work at artistic exhibitions, and 
his service as a judge of the work of other photographers. However, the Director then concluded that 
the totality of the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of 
photographers at the top of the field, and thus was not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence in the 
record in making his determination. After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion regarding the Petitioner's satisfaction of four of the evidentiary criteria, and will therefore 
turn to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that his photographs have been displayed at 
several artistic exhibitions. The record shows that he first began exhibiting his work in 2015 at theD 
Photography Exhibition, and his work has continued to be displayed '----------------' 
2 
in China at exhibitions such asl I in in 2017 and 2018, thd !Photography Festival in 
201 7 and 2019, and the I I F oto F es ti val in 2018. His work has also been shown at several 
exhibitions outside of China including the~------.======,-~of Photography I I 
( h lhel ~ [ Photographic Exhibition, th~ !Photographic Circuit, and the 
I~. ---~!Photographic A~ I, all in 2016. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that several of these exhibitions included photographs from only the 
top artists in the field, which he asserts places him among that group. For instance, regarding the 
exhibition in I I he submitted an article from the website of one its organizers, the 
which notes that "most of these photorraphersl 
are gold medal winners in various international photography competitions and are part of the 
Photography Art team in China." The Petitioner also highlights the acceptance of his work to be 
displayed at thel I exhibition, noting that 203 photographs out of 2310 submitted were 
accepted and citing the statement from the exhibition's website that it is "one of the most highly 
regarded exhibitions in the UK." However, we note that the record does not include information about 
these exhibitions from independent sources, and thus lacks evidence to show that they are considered 
to be prestigious by the international photography community. This is also the case with thd I 
Photographic Circuit and some of the Chinese exhibitions in which the Petitioner participated. 
Regarding the display of the Petitioner's work at the 20181 I Foto Festival, he submitted 
evidence demonstrating that both the festival and his photographs garnered attention. Fisheye, a 
French photography magazine, published a brief article discussing his series I I which was 
exhibited at the festival. The author writes that the Petitioner is "one of the photographers who are 
beginning to be known in China," and describes his photographs o~ I by stating 
that he 
~------------------------' A major work to understand today's China." 
Another French publication, Le Figaro, ublished a much Ion er article about the festival, and briefly 
describes the Petitioner's exhibit as L_ _________ ....------1--_J' In addition, China 
Photo Press devoted an article about both of his displays at th....__ __ ____. Foto Festival, discussing 
~-----------~ The author writes that the Petitioner's "photographing of wonders 
is actually culturally significant ... " and that with both of these projects, "he has gripped the deepest 
and most central disease of the current society." Information about all three of these publications is 
in the record. Le Figaro is a well-known major newspaper, but as stated only briefly describes the 
Petitioner's work. On the other hand, while Fisheye and China Photo Press focus on photography and 
devoted more space to discussing the Petitioner's work, the limited information provided about them 
in the record does not demonstrate their reach and the impact they have within the field of photography. 
Nevertheless, taken as a whole, this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's work was exhibited at 
an important international exhibition in successive years and, as a result of his work's appearance at 
the most recent of these, garnered a certain level of international acclaim as a result. 
The Petitioner also submitted reference letters from two co-founders of the Museum of 
Photography who also both play a role for thel IFoto Festival. ~-~---~states that he 
became aware of the Petitioner's work through the festival, and describes his ~-------~ noting that he "is one of the very few members in the Chinese photography field who have the courage 
to use their works to criticize and challenge" the Chinese government. He also writes that the 
Petitioner "is one of the Chinese photographers who have aggrandized public recognition." 
3 
,,___--, _ _.~s colleague at thel I museum, and founder and director of the festival, is D 
.__ _ ___,I She writes thatl l'has attracted widespread attention and unanimous praise from 
experts and media from home and abroad" after bein exhibited at the festival and that he "is the first 
photographer in China to .__ ___ ----r-----...,.._ ________________ ____. I t She also describes,__ ____ _, and concludes by listing publications in which 
the Petitioner's work has been featured. However, we note that the record does not include evidence 
of media attention or discussion of his work beyond that which has already been discussed. These 
letters serve to confirm that the Petitioner's exhibitions at thel IFoto Festival drew attention 
and were considered by some to be a highlight of the festival. 
As a result of his participation in these exhibitions, the Petitioner also received several awards for his 
work. At the 2016 I I he received a PSA (Photographic Society of America) Gold Medal 1 
for I I' in thel I category for his photograph I I This work also 
resulted in the Petitioner receiving a I I Award for Chinese Art" in the same year. An 
article posted on the website www.fengniao.com describes a ceremony and includes a list of nominees 
and winners for thel ~ Award for Chinese Art. This article indicates that 29 photographers 
were given this award in 2016, 4 received the "Bole Award" and 5 received the "lifetime photography 
achievement award." The article further states that "nominees for the award must have already 
obtained the highest awards in various art activities and competitions ... ," that candidates for the award 
may apply and are limited to "Chinese living in China and abroad," and that over the course of 4 award 
periods over 10 years, moje than 1 QQ ubTographers have received the award. In addition, the article 
describes nominees for th ~-----~-Award for Chinese Art as "the future of Chinese Art," while 
the awardees are "the pioneers and leaders of Chinese Art" and the 50 photographers who have 
received the lifetime achievement award over the same period are "masters who have reached the peak 
of their own careers." The number of awards given at each event and the fact that the award received 
by the Petitioner is not the top award at the event indicates that he is not one of the small percentage 
of photographers at the top of his field on a national or international scale. Further, although the 
Petitioner submitted articles describing later instances of thd I A ward for Chinese Art 
ceremony that were posted to popular Chinese web portals, this was the only article submitted 
regarding the fourth edition in 2016, and the record does not include information about the website 
where it was posted. 
Related to thel I Award for Chinese Art is another honor received by the Petitioner in 
201 7, the 1 I Chinese Photographers Award." An article posted on artron.net indicates 
that this award is sponsored by the organizers of the I I Award for Chinese Art and is "one 
of the series of activities" involved with that award. The article also identifies that organization as its 
source, indicating that it is a press release or similar material. Further, it states that this was the first 
year that this award was given, and that the organizinf committee ranked a total of 334 applicants in 
5 different categories, with the Petitioner placed in the _ I' category. A different 
article regarding the 2019 edition of these awards, posted on pop-photo.com, explains that candidates 
are ranked based upon a point system, with points given for the receipt of awards at photography 
competitions, membership in photography associations, and the publication of a candidate's work. 
1 We note that the record includes references to photography medals associated with multiple photography associations 
which were also awarded at some of the festivals in which the Petitioner participated. With the lack of information in the 
record regarding these associations and the type, level and number of medals with which they are associated, 
4 
Notably, the highest number of available points is awarded to recipients of thd I Award 
for Chinese Art, along with other awards about which no information is provided. These materials 
indicate that this ranking is therefore not based upon an independent evaluation of the quality or artistic 
value of the candidate's work, but is instead a measure of their activity and previous recognition 
received at photography competitions in the previous year. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his receipt of additional awards for his work as a 
photographer, including a~ Gold Medal and I O I awards from thel I in 
2016 (part of the I I Photographic Circuit) and a I I Award at the I I 
International Photography Exhibition in 2019. Regarding the first of these, the record includes a 
description of a later instance of the I I Photographic Circuit from its own website, a list of accepted 
photographers and photographs for the 2016 edition of thd I Salon, and a certificate for the 
Petitioner's receipt ofthel b award. The website page indicates that more than 500 awards 
are granted, presumably across all four salons, and that this includes "Best of Salon" and "Best of 
Circuit" awards. While the Petitioner's receipt of these awards demonstrates some level of 
recognition, he did not receive the highest awards at this event, and the record does not include 
evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers. In addition, as with the~ Gold Medal 
mentioned above, the record does not include information about these photography associations and 
the number and type of medals and other awards issued by them. This evidence is therefore 
insufficient to establish the Petitioner's relative standing in the field outside of the events in which 
they were awarded. Similarly, the information concerning thel I Award is limited to a 
certificate and information from a website with an unknown affiliation. 
In addition to the evidence of the display of his work at exhibitions, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that shows that some of his photographs were placed in the collections of artistic institutions. 
Specifically, one certificate indicates that five photographs of thd I series (presumably 
referring to thel beries discussed above) were transferred to the collection ofthJ I 
Academy of Arts as part of a donation agreement in 2019, and another certificate states that one of the 
Petitioner's photographs was collected b~ !University in China in 2017. We note that although 
the Petitioner initially asserted that this evidence demonstrated that he had made original artistic 
contributions of major significance, he did not focus on it in responding to the Director's notice of 
intent to deny or on appeal. Further, although the evidence indicates that both are reputable 
institutions, it does not establish that the collection of the Petitioner's photographs is a high honor or 
is indicative of acclaim for his work at the highest levels. 
After his success at the aforementioned exhibitions, the Petitioner served as a judge at the 201 7 ._I _ __. ~-----~~ Photography Art Exhibition. He submitted a letter from this organization which 
verifies his service as a judge, and an article posted on sohu.com by I t indicates 
that this exhibition is hosted by the I I Photography Museum and been held annually since 2010. 
This evidence shows that he is considered to be an expert in photography and has achieved some level 
of recognition. However, it does not establish that this exhibition is prestigious or that selection as a 
judge for this exhibition is reserved for those photographers at the top of the field. 
As noted above, in order to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, the Petitioner 
must show that he has been the subject of sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the top of his field, and that his achievements have been 
5 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The evidence demonstrates that he began 
exhibiting his work in 2015, and that he received awards for his work in international competitions 
the following year. However, it does not show that these initial awards were considered to be 
presti,ious, or that his receipt of them placed him among top photographers. The Petitioner's receipt 
of the IA ward for Chinese Art and , I Chinese Photographers Award in 
201 7 show that he was receiving acclaim for his work at the national level, and his participation as a 
judge of other photographer's work at a single exhibition demonstrates that his expertise as a 
photographer had begun to be recognized. More recently, the attention given to the 20181 I 
Foto Festival, and in particular to the display of the Petitioner's collections there, illustrates a growing 
level of appreciation and notice of the Petitioner's work in the field of photography. However, the 
evidence does not establish that he has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level, 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, 
although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his standing among his peers in the field of 
photography, it does not establish that he is yet one of that small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16949516 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , d I artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(5)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-)(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner indicates employment as ~ I artist. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will not disturb the Director's findings relating to those 
criteria.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets one additional criterion. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she satisfies the 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to four other evidentiary 
criteria, membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contributions of major significance at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commercial successes in the 
performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), respectively, but did not satisfy these criteria. The Petitioner does not contest 
these issues on appeal and therefore we deem them to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
eligibility requirements of this criterion based on four claimed interviews of her onl I television 
shows. The Petitioner submitted YouTube screenshots of a video from the show I I 
which was broadcasted od I TV onl I 201 7, Y ouTube screenshots of a video from the 
show I I which was broadcasted onl I TV on I ,I 201 7, and Y ouTube 
screenshots of a video from the show I I' which was broadcasted onl I 
Television 1 onl 12019. The Petitioner provided transcriptions of those videos suggesting 
published material about her relating to her work. Although she also argues that she satisfies this 
criterion based on a claimed interview of her cof ducted on the show I I and 
broadcasted onl ITV inl I o~~---~2019, she did not provide a transcription of the 
interview demonstrating published material about her relating to her work. 
The Director determined that this evidence did not satisfy the requirements of the criterion because 
"screen prints and transcripts of televised interviews do not meet the plain language in the regulations 
as being 'published material,"' and, nevertheless, the record did not establish that the TV networks on 
which they were broadcasted were a major medium. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director's interpretation of this criterion was too restrictive. 3 We agree. The issue is whether the 
aforementioned television shows [enresent a maioJ' medium. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the shows.__ ______ ___. .__ ____ ___.' or I l(epreser a major medium.4 
Although the Petitioner provided television ratings for channels in the documentation 
submitted did not establish that these television shows constitute a major medium. In addition, the 
English translations of the above transcripts are not accompanied by a copy of the foreign-language 
transcripts or the required certification from the translator. 5 
Finally, the Petitioner argued that her evidence should also be considered as comparable evidence 
because "[t]here is no professional or major trade publications in the field ofl I 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to her occupation. 6 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted evidence that 
would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the 
evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 General 
assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative 
and should be discounted. 8 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence that meets 
3 The Petitioner submits a non-precedent decision concerning a photographer who petitioned under this classification, 
noting that "[i]n this case, the AAO considered a television [show] as media but determined that petitioner did not meet 
this criterion because she failed to prove her 'appearances on the shows."' This decision was not published as a precedent 
and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions 
apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings. the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Here, the translations contain the typed statement, 
"Sworn interpreter and translator for Courts," the interpreter's name and telephone number. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. 
3 
at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not meet at least 
three criteria is not evidence that a ~------~artist could not do so. In fact, the Petitioner 
claimed to meet six other criteria. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
she fulfills this criterion, including through the submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17977872 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 03, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a competitive swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification through either 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further determined that the Petitioner had 
not established that he would be corning to the United States to continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability, or that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a swimmer who competes internationally on behalf of He is a four-time 
Paralympian athlete withOgold medals at the Paralympic Games world championship gold 
medals, and~ medals at thel I Games. The Petitioner has a bachelor's degree in sport 
education frone::=] University I . I and indicates that he intends to continue his career as a 
Paralympic swimmer as well as coach U.S. swimmers with disabilities. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed that his gold medals earned at the Paralympic Games 
demonstrate his receipt of major, internationally recognized awards or prizes and are sufficient to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. He has consistently claimed, in the 
alternative, that he could meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), and submitted evidence relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence, membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, 
published materials about him in major media, and high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), and (ix). 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's gold medals at the Paralympic 
Games could not satisfy the one-time achievement requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), noting that 
"[t]he only example of a one-time achievement provided in the legislative history is a Nobel Prize." 
The Director also referenced an unpublished decision, observing that the Administrative Alpeals I 
Office (AAO) "dismissed a case where the beneficiary claimed a one-time achievement in the 
Paralympics inl I The Director did not specifically address the additional evidence 
2 
the Petitioner had submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE) in support of his claim that 
his Paralympic gold medals satisfy the requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
With respect to the alternate evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director 
emphasized that Petitioner initially claimed eligibility solely based on a one-time achievement, but 
acknowledged that his response to the RFE included evidence related to the criteria 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (ix).1 The Director stated, without farther discussion of this evidence or 
the individual claimed criteria, that "USCIS finds that the beneficiary ... does not meet at least three 
of the ten criteria." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not provide any legal basis for dismissing his 
argument that his Paralympic gold medals qualify as a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). He emphasizes that the status and international recognition associated with the 
Paralympic Games has changed drastically in the years since the non-precedent AAO decision 
referenced by the Director was issued and that his arguments and evidence regarding the stature of 
these awards should have been given due consideration. The Petitioner farther maintains that he 
provided "extensive evidence" in support of his argument that he can, in the alternative, meet at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that the Director's decision provided no 
explanation as to why the evidence was deemed insufficient. Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director overlooked evidence related to his intent to enter the United States to continue to work in his 
area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertions regarding the deficiencies in the Director's decision. An 
officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not address 
most of the evidence submitted in support of the petition or in response to the RFE. Further, the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not provide evidence of his receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award was based, in part, on an AAO decision from 2006 that was not 
published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, 
and applicable law and policy. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther review and 
entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should review all evidence submitted to date and 
the Petitioner's claims regarding his eligibility under the criteria set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If 
such evidence is deemed insufficient to establish eligibility, the Director should allow the Petitioner 
an opportunity to submit additional evidence related to the evidentiary criteria and in support of his 
1 As noted above, however, the Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based on his receipt of major, internationally 
recognized prizes or awards, and in the alternative, based on evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii) and (iii). Even ifhe had not made such a claim initially, his failure to do so should not have led the Director to disregard 
evidence the Petitioner submitted under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) with his RFE response. 
3 
claim that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. In this regard, we note that the RFE issued prior to the denial of the petition 
was narrowly focused on the Petitioner's awards and did not fully address the other eligibility 
requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. If: after review of the evidence 
consistent with the analysis provided above, the Director determines that the Petitioner meets the initial 
evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18329194 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an author ofl l seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for further consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an award-winrng auror of1 1 who is also the creator and lead writer 
for~ Is television show, which was broadcast for one season on the Philippiner largest I 
television network. He states that he intends to continue to create books and other media for 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and 
published media about him and his work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director incorrectly 
applied the relevant regulations, and that he meets five evidentiary criteria in addition to those granted 
by the Director. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he meets the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria, and will therefore remand this matter to the Director for a final 
merits determination of whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they have received a prize or award, 
that the prize or award was granted based upon excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prize 
or award is recognized in the field at the national or international level. Here, the record includes 
evidence that the Petitioner has received the following awards: 
• Winner I I j 
.__I _________ ____.t for........,I ______,,[ .__I _ ____.]2012 
2 
• Winnerr-------,.--------------' Foundation, Inc., for '----------~ I I Lr------.---' 2 o 12 
• Winner Story Writing Contest, Literary Fiction in Filipino category, forl~----~I 
2009 
• Winner, 2009 '----------~ Story Writing Competition, forl I I I ~--~ 
• Story Writing Competition, for .... I ____ ____. ---------~ 
• First Prize.__ __ ___, Contest (A national competition for poetry)j._ ___ ..... l 2004 
While the record also includes evidence that he was a finalist for other awards, that evidence does not 
establish that he received a prize or award in those instances. 
Regarding the search held by thel I which led tol I being produced as al I television 
show, the evidence does not indicate that the three selected entries ( out of fifteen submitted) which 
were chosen as a result were announced publicly or otherwise received recognition in the field. 
Although the Petitioner is mentioned as the winner of the search in some of the materials which later 
promoted the television show, including material posted b~ I on its website, this promotional 
material does not show recognition in the field. 
Turning to the two awards received by the Petitioner in the.__ ________ ___, Story Writing 
Competitions, in addition to the notifications of the award winners and promotion of their works which 
appeared on the website of the sponsor of the competition, the record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner's receipt of these awards was also mentioned in broader media. Specifically, al I 
2009 article about the Petitioner posted on the website of ABS-CBN states that the awards were 
received "in one of the most prestigious I I writing competitions," and notes that the Petitioner 
is the first two-time recipient of the awards. In addition, the record includes other evidence about the 
organization which sponsors the competition and other winners. On the basis of this evidence, we 
agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion, but did not provide an 
analysis of the relevant evidence. On review, the previously mentioned! [ 2009 article posted 
on the website of ABS-CBN is about the Petitioner, as it goes into detail about his career and 
background, and about his work as a writer. In addition, other evidence in the record demonstrates 
that ABS-CBN is a leading media organization in the Philippines. We therefore agree with the 
Director and find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
3 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence of participation as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization, whether as an individual or as a member of a panel. In 
support of these requirements, the Petitioner provided evidence that he served as a judge for the third I I Short Story Writing Competition in 2007. In his decision, the Director cited to the Act 
at section 201(b)(l)(A)(i) and its requirement of "extensive documentation," as well as to the very 
high standard set for individuals of extraordinary ability noted in the comments to the implementing 
regulations, and found that this single instance of serving as a judge was not "consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
As noted above, the Kazarian decision and subsequent USCTS policy memorandum 1 established a 
two-step analysis in the adjudication of petitions for individuals of extraordinary ability. In the first 
step, USCIS evaluates the quality and caliber of the evidence to determine whether the individual has 
received a major, internationally recognized award or meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
This step does not involve the determination of whether an individual is one of the small percentage 
at the very top of the field, or if they have sustained national or international acclaim. Only in the 
second step, after the initial evidentiary requirements have been met, are those standards applied to 
the totality of the evidence. 
Because the Petitioner has provided evidence of having judged the work of others in his field, we 
withdraw the Director's determination regarding this criterion and conclude that he meets the criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Based on our above analysis, the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria and thus the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification. As such, the second step of the analysis, the final merits 
determination, must be conducted. Because the Director did not perform a final merits determination 
in his decision, we are remanding this matter for him to do so. In accordance with USCIS policy, the 
Director should examine all of the evidence in the record and determine whether it shows, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and 
is one of the small percentage of children's book authors at the very top of the field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter is remanded for further 
consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent with the above analysis. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643786 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 9, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but then revoked that 
approval, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had established eligibility for 
the immigrant classification he sought. The Director reopened the proceeding on the Petitioner 's 
motion, and again revoked the approval of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We are summarily dismissing the appeal because it does not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion oflaw or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The appeal includes an affidavit in which the Petitioner describes the lengthy procedural history from 
2016 to 2020, as well as issues that arose relating to the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to 
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. The Petitioner asserts that "this process has turned 
out to be highly stressful." Neither the affidavit nor counsel's accompanying letter, however, includes 
any substantive response to the five specific grounds for revocation described in the November 10, 
2020 notice of decision. 
The Petitioner must specifically identify erroneous conclusions of law or statements of fact in the 
decision notice. Assertions about the procedural history that preceded the issuance of that notice 
cannot suffice as grounds for a substantive appeal. 
Accordingly, we must summarily dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18184748 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fish market, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. On the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, the Petitioner 
indicated that a brief and/or additional evidence would be submitted to this office within 30 days. The 
appeal was filed on February 23, 2021. As of this date, no additional evidence has been incorporated into 
the record of proceeding, and the record will be considered complete. 
In a letter accompanying the Form I-290B, the Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary is knowledgeable 
about its business and makes a personal plea for approval of the petition. The Petitioner did not 
acknowledge or address the grounds for denial of the petition or contend that the petition was denied 
based on any specified error on the part of the Director. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) states, in pertinent part, that "[a]n officer to whom an 
appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify 
specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
Here, the Petitioner has not contested any aspect of the Director's decision and has not identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact on the part of the Director as a basis for the appeal. 
Therefore, the appeal will be summarily dismissed. 
We note that the Director's decision adequately addressed the evidence submitted with respect to each 
of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and explained why such evidence was 
insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. The Petitioner was therefore given a sufficient explanation 
of the grounds for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), and a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision. We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the 
Beneficiary was eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As the Petitioner has not identified an erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact in support of the appeal, the appeal must be summarily dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17944404 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in the field of chemistry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that he met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets three additional evidentiary criteria and is otherwise 
eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Pe~icates employment since 2018 as a senior scientist with thel I company.e=J D in L___J California. The record reflects that he holds a Ph.D. in chemistry fromc=J 
University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, related to scholarly articles. We agree. The record reflects that the Petitioner has authored 
articles published in professional publications including Science, Nature Energy, and Joule, thus 
satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
erred in concluding that he did not satisfy the evidentiary criteria relating to published material, 
original contributions, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), and (viii), 
respectively . After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), as required. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several articles, however, he determined that 
the articles are primarily about two of the Petitioner's published works rather than about the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the submitted online articles satisfy this criterion, as they "are 
about [the Petitioner] and his team, covering work that is extensively credited to him throughout the 
2 
Initial Filing and the Request for Evidence." In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 1 
The Petitioner provided several online articles dated 2015 by Scientific American 
(www.scientificaamerican.com, citing Chemistry World as its source), Forbes (www.forbes.com), 
National Geographic (www.news.nationalgeographic.com), Science Daily (www.sciencedaily.com), 
(e) Science News (esciencenews.com), and United Press International (www.upi.com). Although the 
articles are about the Petitioner's research in his 2015 Science article regarding the development of an 
.__ ___________ __. the articles are not about him. Instead, the Petitioner is briefly 
mentioned in the articles from Science Daily, (e) Science News, and United Press International, as 
discovering the newl I as a graduate student atl I working with post-doctoral 
fello~ I an~ I. The Petitioner is never mentioned in the body 
of the articles from Scientific American, Forbes, and National Geographic. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires the published material to be about the alien relating to his work rather than 
articles reporting on his work. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Further, the items from Science Daily 
and ( e) Science News do not include the "author of the material," as required by the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains several additional online articles dated 2016 published by Science Daily 
(www.sciencedaily.com), Engadget (www.engadget.com), News Atlas (www.newsatlas.com), Yahoo 
News Singapore (www.sg.news.yahoo.com), Financial Express (www.financialexpress.com), and 
Research & Development World (www.rdmag.com, citing Engadget and Harvard Gazette as sources). 
Although the articles are about the Petitioner's research in his 2016 Nature EnerJzy article regarding 
the development of al ~ l the articles are 
not about him. Instead, the articles briefly mention the Petitioner as the article's first author and 
contain the same quote from the Petitioner, stating that the r'..=e~s.:::ea=rc::c~h;....:tc=e=am~'....1' =------------' 
.__ _____ ___, but ended up developing a new class ot1 I that should be simple 
to make and inexpensive to manufacture in large quantities. Although he is referenced, the articles 
are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this regulatory criterion. Here, again, the 
Petitioner provided articles only about his work instead of articles about him relating to his work. In 
addition, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the body of the articles from News Atlas and Research 
& Development World. Further, the items from Science Daily, Yahoo News Singapore, and Financial 
Express do not include the author of the material, as required. 
Moreover, none of the aforementioned articles was accompanied by supporting evidence 
demonstrating that they were published in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.2 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field, as 
evidenced by his published research, citation record, letters from experts in the field, patent 
applications, and other evidence. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. 3 In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, and point to the citation of his 
work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not show how his research and 
findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level 
required by this criterion. 
'--------~ a professor of chemistry and materials science atl I University, indicates 
that the Petitioner's work as a Ph.D. student with his research group built on his team's prior discovery 
of a '----------.============r that displayed better performance than metal ions 
currently in use in.__ _________ __. He explains that the Petitioner's published papers 
reported on the first high-performance and non-toxid lbased onl l 
Specifically, the Petitioner's article in Science reported on the use of I I I in the existin~ I while his subsequent articles in Nature Energy and 
Joule demonstr i ely, high-performancg ~ based on a new family ofll I I calledt----,____Jnd even lowerl I materials. He provide~ 
separate team at mt upon the Petitioner's work and showed that it is possible to implement 
a much cheaper in without compromising performance. ~ ~serts that leading ~-~~technology companies, such asl ] , and ~ have expressed interest in "potential commercialization of [the Petitioner's] novel.__ _ __. 
chemistry." Whilel !describes the originality of the Petitioner's research findings and 
indicates they have generated commercial interest he does not discuss in detail how the work has 
already remarkably impacted the field or provide examples of specific applications attributed to the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner provided letters from representatives of several companies with interest in his novel I !chemistry. For instanc~'---------'~ CTO ofi I indicates that 
on a recentlY, completed! lproject to develop lower cost membranes for the next-based upon the Petitioner's Nature Ener; article he collaborated with the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisors 
generation ofl O I ~ a senior researcher a~ I 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
(Japan), indicates his company has been testing the Petitioner'sl I technology "for 
commercialization purposes" and that the Petitioner's! I chemistry "is positioned to reduce the 
cost of the entir~ lsvstem." I I indicates he cited to the Petitioner's Science article and 
used the Petitioner'~ I design idea as part of his own published study of a I I 
I lbasedon~-----~ 
Similarly,! I at the University o~ !indicates he cited to the Petitioner's Science 
article in his own work in 2017 which verified that em lo ment of molecules 
s1 nificantly enhanced the .__ ___________________________ __, 
,,__ __ ..,_in=-.:c"""omparison to conventional metal ion-based systems. He provides examples of the "novel 
concepts" of research teams in Denmark and Switzerland who have cited to the 
Petitioner's work." However, neithe~ JI I, nor I I further elaborated or discussed 
whether the Petitioner's findings have been implemented beyond informing the research of other 
scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent of their application. They did not specify how the 
Petitioner's research toward the development and commercialization of~---------~ I lbased onl lis deemed a majorly significant contribution to the field. 
An additional letter froml I a professor at .__ _____ --,--___ ___._,University I I asserts that the Petitioner's work "has changed the directii"'°"~~-,_ __ ___J research" 
and "gmded some ofmy own research as well as that ofmy colleagues.'.__ __ _.states that he cited 
to the Petitioner's articles ublished in Science and Nature Ener in his 2017 review article titled 
~-----------------------.---------.--~publishedinACS 
Energr Letters. He explains that his review article "evaluated 1 ~---___._, ........ ........,.........,,gies ranging from 
earlyl I systems ... to more recent systems based on.__ ______ ~, such as the ones 
developed by [the Petitioner] and his team," and he chose to highlight the work of the Petitioner and 
his team published in Science "as he made useful contributions to our understanding of1 I 
I I" specificall how a~----------- "reaches up to a high cell voltage of 
1.2V." Although escribes the Petitioner's research as "groundbreaking" and having 
"changed the direction o ~----~ research" he has not sufficiently detailed in what ways the 
Petitioner has advanced the state of research in his field or already remarkably impacted their shared 
field, or provided examples of specific applications attributed to the Petitioner's work. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided two letters from the Petitioner's employer,! ~ Within its 
initial submission, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml 11 rs CEO, who 
credits the Petitioner with leading the company's I IR&D effort in d~signing components of 
itsl I technology, thd ~' which he claims is "poised to completely 
redefine the technologies available on the market toda ." He state, that the Petitionrr imp~oved the 
company's original I I design, addin ~------~-chemicals, and I I to increase the commercial cycle life. He asserts that, with the 
Petitioner's expertise, the company's........,.---,---~ technology is "the most advance~ I 
technology that is commercially available" and "is proving immense~lar with companies that 
are developing next-generation mobilit a lications." He claims thatL___Jis partnering thel I 
and I I on supplying program, working with leading 
companies in th industr and that id lwas selected to be 
incorporated into the next-generation.__ _________ __. technologies. He indicates that 
5 
I I is in discussions wit~ !manufacturers to explore their interest in licensing and 
potentially acquiring its I I technology. 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided 
an additional letter froml I in which he asserts that in June 2020, the performance of the 
technology developed by the Petitioner forL-,--___. ......... ,------------.----'was "validated 
to be more successful than every other recen advancement on the market" based on testing 
performed by the Department of Ener DOE an~-------------'""--;and that in August 
202Q I was acquired b "the bigges ~-----~ in the EU," based 
upon the Petitioner's novel~ _____ ___.contributions. 
We note that the DOEc=Jtesting and the acquisition ofl I byl I occurred after 
the initial filing of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that a company's negotiation to potentially commercialize his research demonstrates that 
the field already recognizes his work as being majorly significant. Nor did the Petitioner show that 
the commercialization of research work bl compares automatically evidences contributions of major 
significance in the field. Even if1 I. , orl I commercialized the Petitioner's 
inventions, he did not establish the impact or influence of his work in the overall field rather than 
limited to the company. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the result of those companies' 
commercialization, such as high sales or widespread usability of a product or application. Although 
others opine that the Petitioner's work shows promise, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his work 
already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of his novel.__ _____ ____, contributions has yet to be 
determined. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent 
with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 Letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' 
assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have 
been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work 
has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
Regarding his patent applications, the Petitioner submitted evidence showinJ he is a co-inventor on 
two patent applications, for al and a I I I I respectively. In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but 
does not necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field. Here, the 
Petitioner's patent applications show the originality of his work, but they did not demonstrate that it 
resulted in a contribution of major significance in the field. 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix. 
5 Id. 
6 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. Regarding his 
citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 884 cumulative 
citations. Specifically, the record shows that his four highest cited articles received 422 (Science), 179 
(Nature Energy), 124 (Nature Materials), and 60 (Joule), citations, respectively. 6 This evidence, 
however, does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of chemistry rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. Citation to one's work alone is insufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as a citation ranking 
does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work 
in the field. 7 Rather, we must consider whether the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field."8 
The Petitioner has presented samples of articles that have cited to his work. A review of those articles, 
though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to his work. For instance the Petitioner rovided a artial article titled I I 
~------------------------------~ (Joule), in 
which the authors cited to his 2016 Nature Energy article.9 However, the article does not distinguish 
or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the over 63 other cited papers. Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown how any of his published articles have an impact that rises to the level of "major 
significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several review articles. One 
of the submitted partial review articles, titled.__ ____________________ __. 
.__ _____ ~(Angewandte Chemie), cites to the Petitioner's 2015 Science article among at least 
176 other articles. While the inclusion of the Petitioner's research in this and other review articles is 
noted, and the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears 
to be a very active field of research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review 
article is indicative of an individual contribution of major significance, and the evidence does not 
distinguish the Petitioner's publications from the many others cited. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly 
ranked journals, as well as presentations at reputable conferences, establish that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. A publication that bears a high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
6 The Petitioner's remaining three articles and two patent applications, published between 2013 and 2019, garnered 
between 1 and 40 citations. 
7 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work does not 
demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major 
impact in his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to our non-precedent decision concerning a virologist who petitioned 
under this classification. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Nevertheless, we note that the Petitioner emphasizes that, in the referenced decision, "the petitioner 
demonstrated his significant contributions through reference letters describing their use and 
implementation in the field, and corroborating documentation." We agree that the non-precedent 
decision highlights the fact that we placed significant weight on the statements of experts who clearly 
described how the petitioner's scientific contributions were both original and of major significance in 
their field. However, for the reasons discussed previously, the expert opinion letters submitted in this 
matter did not contain sufficient probative analysis to establish that the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
The Petitioner also maintains on appeal that reports by media outlets demonstrate that he "has made 
significant contributions to his field." As discussed previously, the record contains several articles, 
some of which briefly mention the Petitioner, that discuss some of his teams' research findings. For 
example, online articles from Scientific American, National Geographic, and (e) Science News, report 
the findings of his Science article regarding the development ofl I at the 
time of the publication of that work in September 2015. Additional online articles by Science Daily, 
Engadget, and Research & Development World report the findings of the Petitioner's Nature Enerf[F 
article regarding the development of~~----------------------~[ 
at the time of the publication of that work in July 2016. The Petitioner did not show, however, that 
such limited media coverage indicates an original contribution of major significance in the field. For 
example, it did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's research and findings resulted in widespread 
coverage and interest. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, 
patent applications, citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow chemists and other 
experts, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings 
have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made a contribution of major significance in the field of chemistry. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the scholarly articles criterion, he does not meet the 
claimed criteria regarding published material and original contributions of major significance. While 
he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.10 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643810 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cinematographer/director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a director of photography/cinematographer with an extensive list of film and 
television credits in the United Kingdom and the United States. The record reflects that he intends to 
continue work in his area of expertise and was under contract and/or in negotiations to work on several 
upcoming feature film and television projects in the United States at the time of filing. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence related to eight of these ten criteria, 
and the Director determined that he satisfied three of them, relating to his receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards, published material about him and his work, and the display of 
his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (vii). 
Afterreviewing the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied at least 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria and will therefore turn to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
will analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if 
his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
In a final merits determination, we must evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance 
of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3): see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Upon review, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for this classification. 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has consistently been recognized in the entertainment indus1Iy 
for his work as a director of hoto a h for film and television productions since 2T8 Tu thar year, 
he received the L--r-----i------~-_J.L.J,.........,u..>.L~amatic category) at the.__ __ ~ Film 
Festival for the fil ~-~which was his.__ ____ ~ credit as a director of photography. This 
achievement was covered by Variety magazine, which named the Petitioner to its ~ I I Jist in 2008 The evidence further establishes tha~ I which also 
earned the Petitioner al nomination at the 2009 Filml I Awards, 
received widespread critical acclaim with additional screenings, nominations, and awards at other 
major international film festivals worldwide. 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he has been able to sustain his acclaim in the industry through 
additional achievements in cinematography that have been recognized through awards and award 
nominations. Further, the record reflects that many of the independent film projects on which he has 
worked have been official selections at the world's major film festivals, includincl II I 
Film Festival, I I Film Festival,! I Film Festival, and thel I 
Film Festival, thus garnering additional international recognition for his work. 
For example, the Petitioner has received two additionall ~ nominations from the 
Filml IAwardsforthefilmO(in2013)an~ l(in2015). 
He provided evidence that thel IA wards are considered significant in the industry 
and receive media coverage in major trade publications includin Holl wood Re orter Variety, and 
Deadline. ThePetitioner'sworkasdirectorof hoto a h fo alsoearned 
him a nomination for al ~Award at th'lr-----,.. _____________ __JAwards, 
and the film received multi le awards at the m Festival. In 2012, the Petitioner was a 
r-1ll.!.LL.Lu..i..i.~..i..u.....J.LL--,_ ___ __Jaward at I Film Festival of the I I 
.__ _____ __. for his work as director of photo for This film also 
received nominations at th n Film Awards. The Petitioner's 
additional film credits include'----~-------.-------~ andl I which both 
received [A.ward nominations for.__ ___ _.Film, in 2014 and 2016, respectively. 
The Petitioner's television credits inch::::.:1d:!..:e:::...!:::::====;---;:::::==:::'...1.'.(f~o~r which he serve..,........ .......... .........,., 
photography fo , I ~ the British serie 
British miniseries L_---1--------7 He received aL_---r--7- ___ _J ._ _ _. I jAwar=r~d~1=·n~th=e~----,r---o-----.--~==-=-........,;;.-"'-=-=. in 2014 and was 
nominated for a.__ ______ _. ward fo .__ _____ __. for.__ __________ ~ 
in 201 1. The Petitioner has also served as director of photography for music videos for several notable 
British artists and received a 201 ol I Award for Best Cinematography in a Video. 
Further, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner and his work in the film and television projects 
mentioned above have been featured i.n professional a.nd major trade publications iucfodiu g amqng 
others, Variety, Filmmaker Magazine, The Film Stage, which featured! . Jin 
its "Best Cinematography of 2016" list, and British Cinema to rap her which has publishe~ 
pieces on the Petitioner and his work on 2012 2016), andl___J 
~---~1(2020). He was also featured in a list ublished b The 
Pla list in 2016, which raises his bod of work and states that he· 
The Petitioner 
3 
and his cinematography work inl I, I I and I I have also been ~ted in case studies featured on the websites of prominent camera manufacturersLJand 
L___J Considered in the aggregate, the record reflects that the Petitioner has been consistently 
covered in industry media since 2008, thus adding to his sustained acclaim and recognition in his field. 
The record further demonstrates that the Petitioner has been reco ized for his ex ertise throu his 
nomination and selection as a f;.:::u::.!cll~m~e:!.!m:!.!b::..:e:::!r~o:'..,!f;...;t~h~e1....- __ ---r-------------~..., 
which he has also served on the~ ______ __,, and the~-------------~ I ~-A letter frorr0states that membership is "by invitation only" and "is awarded only to 
directors of photography who have proved themselves to be among the very best in the field." The 
supporting evidence describing the~membership requirements and standards for full membership 
supports this statement and indicates that those selected must have at least five years of substantial 
film and television credits and be judged as having outstanding artistic achievements in 
cinematography. The number of fully accreditedc=Jmembers is small, at just over 100, and reflects 
that those admitted are at the top of the field amon~ I cinematographers. While the membership 
requirements fo~ I appear to be somewhat less stringent, the Petitioner's full voting 
membership in that association indicates that he is regarded as an artist who has made a "significant 
contribution" to his industry. The record reflects that the Petitioner has received further recognition 
......... ~~~~~~~~......_r a~ _________ __.by serving as an invited panelist at the 
ilm Festival and b an invitation to judge the cinematography 
category for the~----------------' Awards in 2020. 
The record also contains letters from the Petitioner's U.S. and U.K talent representatives who discuss 
his prominent upcoming projects (including a~-------------~----__._), 
high remuneration relative to his peers, and demonstrated record of working with renowned directors 
on critically acclaimed and award-winning projects. When considered in the aggregate with the 
evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated that his achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a finding that the Petitioner is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field of endeavor and that he has sustained national or international acclaim. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17513961 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a nephrologist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician and clinical researcher in the internal medicine specialty of nephrology. 
At the time of filing, he was an attending physician, faculty member, and director of clinical research 
for the Division of Nephrology atl I inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of these ten criteria and the record supports this 
determination. The Petitioner's documented service as a peer reviewer for professional journals 
constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored scholarly articles in professional publications in 
his field and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(vi). Finally, the record establishes 
that the Petitioner has served in critical roles for thel I Health system and demonstrates 
that his employer enjoys a distinguished reputation among U.S. medical institutions, thus satisfying 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the 
initial evidence requirements, we will discuss the totality of the evidence, including evidence 
submitted in support of additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), in the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
2 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for 
this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner completed his initial medical training in India, where he received 
a bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery MBBS from! I University in 2000 and a doctor 
of medicine (MD) degree from University o in 2006. Subse uentl , he com leted an 
internship and residency in internal medicine at.__ _______________ __.between 
2008 and 2011, where he served as the chief medical resident in internal medicine from 2011 until 
2012. The Petitioner received his certification in nephrology from the American Board of Internal 
Medicine in November 2014 after completing a two-year fellowship at University ofl I at I I He currently serves as an attending physician, faculty member and director of clinical 
research inl l's Division of Nephrology. The record reflects that, since receiving 
his board ce1iification, the Petitioner has been able to achieve and sustain a national reputation as an 
expe1i in the research and treatment of rare kidney diseases and, more recently, in the treatment of 
COVID-19-related kidney injury. 
With respect to his experience judging the work of others, the Petitioner established that he has 
received and completed independent requests to review a substantial number of manuscripts for 
renowned professional publications. We find the Petitioner's judging experience, together with the 
achievements described further below, to be consistent with a dete1mination that he is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he serves in a critical role as an attending physician 
and director of clinical research in nephrology forl ~ al I hospital 
system. The record reflects that this prominent position has provided the Petitioner with opportunities 
to participate in high-profile clinical research consortia which have, in tum, garnered him wider 
reco ition as a leading expert in his field. Of note the Petitioner was invited to artici ate as 
s site investi atorforth _,___......------------.-------.--,-----,,------' '-------------~· The coordinator of this study.__ ____ ___,of Medical 
School, describes it as a multidisciplinary, multi-institutional study that was created 
0".__ __ _,emphasizes that while over 300 investi ators are involved in the.__ ____ _, study, 
the Petitioner was invited to join the grou 's committee, which is comprised of a much 
smaller team of researchers. As such,,..__ _ ___, states that the Petitioner should be considered a main 
author of several major studies that significantly impact the treatment of COVID-19 in critically ill 
patients. 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner's co-authored article, 
.__ ______________________________ _,' published in 
JAMA Internal Medicine, received major media attention upon publication from outlets that included 
3 
NPR, The Washington Post, BBC, USA Today and CNN. Further, the record reflects that the drug 
tocilizumab has since been approved by health authorities in the United Kingdom and elsewhere as a 
viable treatment option for critically ill COVID-19 patients. 
A letter frou_,_ __ ~--~-------_.American Society ofN ephrology (ASN), explains 
ificance of the Petitioner's paper ·j I 
'----......---.---------.-------.....,..... which was published in the Journal of the American Society of 
Nephrology (JASN). ~-~-~emphasizes that this research represents "the largest and most 
influential study of COVID-19 patients admitted to ICU who needed dialysis, and is invaluable to 
physicians, public health professionals and hospital administrators to anticipate the need for dialysis 
in critically ill patients with COVID-19 and ... to ensure adequate dialysis facilities and trained 
personnel."I ,IChief of the Division ofNephrology at University~------~ 
also discusses this "seminal article," noting that it served to "increase our understanding of the 
intersection between COVID-19 and AKI [ acute kidney injury] and guides treatment decisions by 
clinical physicians as we navigate this deadly pandemic about which know very little." In addition. 
the record reflects that ASN invited the Petitioner to present the study at its annuall I 
conference and that the editor-in-chief of JASN highlighted this article as one of the five most 
important studies published by the journal in 2020. 
Collectively, the expert opinion testimony in the record indicates that the Petitioner's high-profile 
research wit~ I has resulted in him becoming recognized as "one of the leading experts 
on how nef hrology intersects with COVID-19." In recognition of this expertise, the Petitioner was 
invited by 11 to generate and publish its official COVID-19 
guidelines for N ephrotic Synd.ro~S) patients, a population that is at higher risk of death from the 
diseaseJ ICEO o±l_J states that the guidelines developed by the Petitioner have been 
accessed by patients and practitioners thousands of times. 
In his role as director of clinical research at the Petitioner also serves as a 
principal site investigator and steering committee member of the '-------~-~------' I I I I is a multi-site research consmiium, funded by and the I I that aims to understand and advance treatments for nephrotic syndrome 
diseases. The record reflects that the Petitioner's contributions to the I , u , I group's published 
research have garnered him national recognition as a leading expert in the clinical research and 
treatment of NS. In this regard, the Petiti~ner provided evidence that he is one of a small number of 
nephrologists who has been designated b as a.__ ___________ __.' The record, 
which has been supplemented on appeal, includes ample evidence that practicing nephrologists, 
clinical researchers and phannaceutical companies recognize the Petitioner as a leading specialist in 
this field and have independently sought the Petitioner's expertise and collaboration on both the 
research and treatment of NS and other rare kidney diseases. The0' s states that the 
Petitioner was invited to presento~ ts activities at the organization's 2019 I I and emphasizes that he is regarded in the field as a "leading voice in~a-dv_o_c_a_t-in_g_fo~r 
kidney research." 
is described as "the onl or anization committed exclusively to accelerate research for effective treatment for 
.__ _______________ ___, and provide education and support that will improve the lives of 
those affected." 
4 
The record reflects that several of the Petitioner's other clinical research contributions have been 
highlighted in significant ways that have garnered him additional recognition in his field and which 
set him apart from other practicing nephrologists. For example, several of the expert recommendation 
letters submitted in support of the petition comment on the importance of the Petitioner's article 
which was published in BMC 
~N:_e_p_h-ro_l_o_g_y_a_n_d_w_a_s -th_e_s-,u-b-de_c_t_o_f_a_f_e_a_tu_r_e_a-1i-ic--l-e-in-th_e_A_S_N_p_u_b_li~cation Kidney News in 2020 .D 
.__ _____ ____. a professor at University ofl I ex~lains that kidney biopsy, 
while essential to advancing research of kidney diseases, is associated witht !complications, 
making it important to find interventions that reducel I risks. He states that the Petitioner's 
publication, which provides guidance on the safe and effective administration ofl I during 
biopsy "received significant attention amongst nephrologists and s ecialists working in allied fields." 
I I similarly describes the Petitioner's article on the use of in kidney biopsy as 
"practice changing research" in the field of clinical nephrology . .__ ___ ____.also discusses this 
research in his letter, noting that '"[d]ue to the significance of [the Petitioner's] publication on 
I Ito allnephrologists, we also used itin one ofASN's main educational tools, the "Kidney 
Self-Assessment Program" (KSAP), which "reviews the essentials of nephrology" for those preparing 
for board certification and re-certification in the field. 
~-----~[ an associate rofessorofmedicine atUniversi o 
the Petitioner's 2019 article em hasizes that 
~------~-----~ has been cited in UPTODA TE, which he describes as "a clinical 
design support resource relied on by hundreds of thousands of physicians to improve patient 
outcomes." I I explains that the Petitioner's was the first research study investigating the 
incidence of severe acute kidney injury among civilian I !victims and includes 
recommendations for recognizing and managing kidney injury among this population to ensure better 
patient outcomes. I l's letter also discusses the inclusion of the Petitioner's study in 
UPTODA TE, noting that the article now serves as "a valuable resource for every nephrologist and I lwho cares for adult patients withl I injuries in the United States." 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's research contributions shows that his work has 
consistently been recognized for its significance, either in major media, by professional organizations 
and publications, and by inclusion in resources that physicians rely on to make clinical decisions 
regarding the treatment of patients with kidney injury or disease. These contributions are discussed 
in detail by experts who explain the influence of the Petitioner's work on both research and clinical 
practice, and who confirm that his collective contributions have resulted in his recognition as "one of 
the top nephrologists practicing today." 
Finally, although many of the Petitioner's scholarly articles, and particularly those in which he applied 
his expertise to COVID-19 research, are quite recent, he offered a Google Scholar report reflecting a 
substantial number of citations to his published work. Further, the record reflects that he continues to 
publish scholarly articles in distinguished professional journals and is consistently invited as a 
presenter at the major conferences in his field of expertise. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19, 1990). Weconcludethattherecordsuppmisafinding 
5 
that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17773598 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician , composer , and music producer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer, songwriter, musician, and music producer. He has released five so lo albums, 
toured internationally, and collaborated as a co-producer, co-writer and musician on the albums and 
singles of other recording artists. The Petitioner has also contributed original music to commercial 
campaigns and television soundtracks and served as the composer for the,__ _____ __.series I I He states that he intends to continue working in the United States as a songwriter, 
composer, and producer. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorconcludedthathemettwo ofthetencriteria. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had established his receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards and provided evidence of published material about him, and therefore 
satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets up to four additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is othe1wise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets two additional 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others in his field and commercial success in the performing 
arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and(x). 
With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner provided evidence 
that he has been a voting member of The Recording Academy since 2015, in which capacity he votes 
among the nominees for the annual Grammy Awards. By having some influence over the selection of 
1 The record shows that the Petitionerwa s working in the United States for several years prior to the filing of this petition 
pursuantto E-2 nonimmigrantstatus. He is the ownerotl , I a music production company. 
2 
award winners, the Petitioner participates as a judge as described in the regulation. He has documented 
his participation in voting for three editions of the Grammy Awards and therefore satisfies this 
criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) focuses on volume of sales and boxofficereceipts in relation 
to others as a measure of an individual's commercial success in the perfmming aiis. The Petitioner 
claims eligibility under this criterion based on the commercial success ofc=Js 2007 albumD I I on which he se · · vidence that the album 
was certified Gold by the in 2009 based on sales 
of more than 500,000 in the United States) and certified Double Platinum b .__ ____ _.(based on 
sales of more than 200,000 units in Canada). The Director acknowledged this evidence but determined 
the criterion had not been met. In reaching this dete1mination, the Director emphasized that the 
Petitioner claimed eligibility for this classification "as a producer, not a performing aiiist," that he did 
not "provide evidence of sales or box office receipts," and that he did not provide evidence that he "is 
featured in any promotional material that may lend credence thatthe success of a particular production 
in which [he] performed can be attributed to [him]." 
The evidence establishes that both thel ts andl l's certification programs require 
record labels to submit proof of commercial sales that is subject to audit and that they are recognized 
industry wide as indicators of commercial success. The Petitioner also provided evidence that he was 
personally presented with a '1 [" plaque froni lhased 
on his contributions to the album land that he is mentioned asc=Js co-producer and 
close collaborator in the many submitted reviews and media articles about the album. We conclude 
that the Petitioner established his contributions to the album's commercial success, and that he has 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he meets the initial evidence requirements 
for this classification by satisfying at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Here, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for the benefit sought 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received international acclaim for his work as a music 
producer and collaborator with other artists, includin~andl lsinger-songwriterD 
among others. As noted, the Petitioner was credited as a co-writer, co-producer, and musician 
's albuml I which received D Grammy A ward nominations in 200 8 andc=J 
wards from thel !Academy ofRecordingA1is and Sciences. The album also enjoyed 
3 
noteworthy critical acclaim and extensive media coverage as evidenced by reviews and articles in 
mainstream and music industry publications including New York Times, NPR, People, Spin, Rolling 
Stone, and many others. Further, the album achieved commercial success as evidenced by its Gold 
andl lfrom thel I and I I The album's success resulted 
in live performances at the Grammf Awards, Saturday Night Live, and other jajorl televised 
broadcasts, including the I Olympics, for which the Petitioner served as s musical 
director. As mentioned above, the Petitioner's contributions to these achievements are acknowledged 
in the many submitted reviews, articles, and interviews about the album, and are confirmed in letters 
frorrc=]'s management and others in the industry. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has since received sustainedrecognition in the industry asD's 
long-time close collaborator and is well-known for his contributions as a co-writer aid co-producer 
onl ~ critically acclaimed follow-ups tol lThese albums include (2011) 
which was certified platinum inl I reache~~----~on the Billboard 200 chart and earned 
al IA ward nomination and~ I Music Prize. In 201 7, the Petitioner again collaborated with ~ as a writer and producer on her studio albuml l which reached the Billboardl I 
Top 10 and achieved critical acclaim as evidenced by its inclusion on many year-end best album lists ~or media. In addition to his work witp the Petitioner co-wrote and c~-prodTed thee=] 
L_____.J single 1 ~ which received th O f prize at the 20 I Awards and 
was certified triple platinum by th~ I Recording Industry Association. The Petitioner's 
contributions to this song and other recordings by I land other artists are highlighted in the 
submitted media articles and earned him additional acclaim as a songwriter and producer.I I 
I tan A&R Manager at,__ _______ ___, states that he has "watched [the Petroner'sll 
career skyrocket with outstanding work on his productions wit~ ID,I I, 
Oandmore." 
In addition to his work as a producer and co-writer for other artists, the Petitioner has released five 
solo albums and three EPs since 2002 and has toured in North America, Europe, and Japan. Feature 
stories, articles, interviews, and reviews focusing on the Petitioner and his work have appeared in 
media outlets such as BBC, NPR, Pitchfork, Wired, Fader, Vice and Bandcamp, as well as Canadian 
national newspapers The Globe and Mail and the National Post. Overall, the Petitioner has submitted 
significant press coverage of his career spanning a period of 15 years. The Petitioner's acclaim in the 
field is further evidenced by the inclusion of his son s on soundtracks for television shows including -------~·,I t,L._ _____ ..,.......... ____ ----....r--_.Jand 
, as well as soundtracks for several feature films, includin '-'---------' 
As a composer, the Petitioner has contributed original music to commercial campaigns for major 
brands including A le Adidas and Porsche. He has also achieved acclaim for his work as the 
composer for the,__ __ ~--~---__.show,___----.======f which earned him a~ I I award at the 2020 Awards sponsored c::J I anl !distributor and 
streaming service described as "the world's most popular brand." 
Based on this evidence of his achievements and earned recognition, as well as other evidence not 
discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as a musician and producer 
and established that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
4 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes thatthe Petitioner 
possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has the required sustained acclaim. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19547559 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in biophysics and biomedicine . See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
In a decision dated September 11, 2019, the Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the 
petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. On July 21, 2020, we dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California, which granted the Petitioner's motion for summary judgment, and remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with their o:inion. I I I , I Specifically, the Court concluded that 
the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements and remanded 
the matter to us to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 
Upon consideration of the Court's opinion and the arguments and evidence in the record of proceeding, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner indicates he is the founder and chief executive officer of-I ______ I where his 
work involves "innovating with technical applications across Biophysics and Biomedicine." Because 
the Petitioner concedes that he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that he met five criteria, including through the submission of 
comparable evidence. In our prior decision we determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he meets the criteria related to awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published materials under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As we 
concluded that the Petitioner was unable to fulfill at least three criteria, we reserved a determination 
on the criteria related to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and did not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Court concluded that we erred in our determination, finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
sufficient to establish that he meets the criteria relating to awards, published materials, and original 
contributions. The Court found no error in our determination that the Petitioner did not meet his 
burden to demonstrate that he may use comparable evidence to demonstrate his eligibility.1 Further, 
1 In addition, the Court determined that because the Petitioner did not contest on appeal the Director's determination that 
he did not establish that he meets the criterion related to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) it would not consider the 
Petitioner's argument on this issue. 
2 
the Court analyzed the documentation submitted under the criteria related to scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), finding that the 
Petitioner met the scholarly articles criterion but did not satisfy the leading or critical role criterion. 
In sum, the Court concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled step one of the Kazarian framework because 
he fulfilled the regulatory requirements of four criteria. The Court remanded the case to us to evaluate 
the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 Accordingly, we have analyzed the record in its entirety, which includes other relevant evidence 
such as the Petitioner's scholarly articles and leading or critical role. In this matter, we determine that 
the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility. 
In the present matter, the Petitioner has submitted extensive documentation of his achievements in the 
biophysics and biomedicine fields and has demonstrated a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The evidence provided, in the 
aggregate, is sufiicient to demonstrate the Petitioner's sustained national and international acclaim as 
a biophysics and biomedicine researcher, scientist, and clinician, and as a biophysicist chief executive 
officer, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. In addition, the 
submitted documentation shows that the Petitioner is among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. The Petitioner has authored a substantial number of articles in 
distinguished journals and conference proceedings that have garnered a large number of citations, some 
of which apply and build upon his work, for instance, in the area ot1 I I I See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 (citations may be relevant to the final merits 
determination of whether an individual is at the very top of the field). 4 Further, the Petitioner 
submitted reference letters from experts in the field, detailing his specific contributions and explaining 
how those contributions are of major significance in his field. For example,! Jin 
discussing examples of the Petitioner's specific achievements and their impact on the field, stated that 
the Petitioner's patente~ I obtained "the first positive result in a relevant I I 
model" and his work in._ ____ __.f "is now a recognized approach at research agencies both in the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 Id. (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety 
to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the 
immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner submitted a user profile from Research Gate at the time of filing, indicating that his 68 publications had 
been cited 2,204 times in total. Within his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a 
citation summary from Google Scholar showing 2,886 total citations. 
3 
E.U. and the U.S." While we need not accept unsupported conclusory assertions, 5 the evidence of 
record, including evidence not discussed in this decision, supports these conclusions. 
Moreover, the record contains articles about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field that appeared 
in professional publications dedicated to the business technology or biometrics industry. Given the 
Petitioner's area of claimed extraordinary ability, being featured in such publications with references 
such as~-----------------------------~' is indicative 
of his acclaim. Further, the record shows that in his role as chief executive officer of the start-up I khe Petitioner's patents have resulted in the company being awarded a relatively high 
amount of venture capital investment froml l based on the importance of his work 
in the field as the inventor of the I I identity validation technology. Similarly, as chief 
integration officer at the I I, the Petitioner's patents 
resulted in a significant amount of angel investor and venture capital fonding for its I ~ handheld 
health monitoring device and its in-homel [test system, with the latter obtaining approval 
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and entering the market. We find that the relatively high 
fonding amounts based on the importance of the Petitioner's past and ongoing work in the field, from 
entities that the record indicates have a history of fonding startups that have achieved success, is also 
evidence of his acclaim. 
In light of the evidence discussed above and other corroborating evidence of record, the Petitioner's 
achievements are commensurate with sustained national and international acclaim at the very top of his 
field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence qualifying under at least three of the ten categories of evidence 
and established a "level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the[ir] field of endeavor" and "sustained national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner's achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise and he has established 
that he seeks to continue working in the same field in the United States. The Petitioner has shown that 
his entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore 
qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 See 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 18851417 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an independent filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and was among the small percentage of those at 
the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an independent filmmaker whose credits include theatrical feature films, short films, 
and documentary projects released in his native country of Zimbabwe. The record reflects that he has 
also directed and written concepts for music videos. He intends to continue writing, editing and 
directing films in the United States if his petition is granted. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work, 
his participation as a judge of the work of others, and display of his work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's short film I I received a~------~Award ) I ~ for in 2013 awarded b the National Arts Council 
of Zimbabwe. This film also earned him the.__ _______ -r--,_____,Award at thel I 
International Film Festival! lin 2011, and was screened at the that same year. In 2017, he 
produced! I, a feature film expanding on the original short film by the same name, which 
won multiple awards and was also screened at then and at several additional festivals. The record 
also contains evidence demonstrating that he wo~ I at C=1 in 2006, as well as the I lforl lin 2016. Accordingly, we agree that the submitted evidence establishes 
that the Petitioner meets the awards and display criteria. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted numerous articles published in major media discussing his work 
and accomplishments, as well as evidence that he judged the work of others in his field as the head 
juror for thel I We concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner also satisfies the 
judging and published material criteria. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills at 
2 
least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner is an independent filmmaker who has also worked as a music video writer and director. 
The record as a whole reflects that he has become a respected figure in Zimbabwe's film industry, but 
does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Preliminarily, we note that on appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of an updated Form I-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, that updates his claimed job title to 'I I Film Maker." 
The Petitioner indicates that the Director unfairly considered the Petitioner in the context of 
filmmakers as a whole, when in fact he should be compared to the I lof I I I I when determining whether he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The Petitioner requests that we accept this new job title and associated duties, and 
supplements the appeal with additional evidence for consideration in support of this assertion. 
While the Petitioner's assertions are noted, we will not consider these new claims in our review of the 
appeal. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
If significant changes are made to the initial request for approval, the Petitioner must file a new petition 
rather than seek approval of a petition that is not supported by the facts in the record. 1 Although the 
Petitioner attempts to submit an updated Form I-140 to reflect its change in job title, he is not permitted 
to make material changes to a petition, to its claims, or to the evidence in an effort to make an apparently 
deficient petition conform to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requirements. See 
Matter of lzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). The Petitioner's initial filing does not 
describe the job title as I O I film maker" or provide any details of the! ~ field 
of endeavor. Consequently, we will only consider the claims and evidence the Petitioner presented before 
the Director. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has worked on four feature films, several short films, and 
approximately 40 short documentary videos since 2006, usually as a writer and director. Although 
this demonstrates the Petitioner's lengthy career in filmmaking, longevity in the industry, however, is 
not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. 
1 Rather than file a new petition, the Petitioner seeks to amend the cunent petition on appeal. The Petitioner stated that 
"[s]ince we are not filing a new 1-140, we are not including a new filing fee since [the Petitioner] has previously paid it in 
his original filing." 
3 
Based on the submitted evidence, the Petitioner is best known for his feature film,I I which 
he comp)eted in 2]117. The Petitioner's film on which he served as writer director and editor won I _Film at the and Feature at the Film 
Festival in 2017, as well as.__ ____ _. at the.__ _____ ~International Film Festival in 
I lin 2018. Although his receipt of these awards received press coverage in outlets such as 
The Herald and H-Metro, such media coverage does not establish that winning such awards results in 
sustained national or international acclaim for the award recipient. While the Petitioner received his 
awards forl I in 2017 and 2018, the record does not demonstrate that he directed another 
feature film or received any additional nominations or awards for his film and music video projects in 
subsequent years. Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence demonstrating that in late 2019, he was selected to participate 
in an American television documentary entitled 1~---~t' a series that featured[] filmmakers from D countries, of all whom werd I The series consisted otO episodes, with one episode 
dedicated to each filmmaker, and the Petitioner was selected to represent Zimbabwe. The director of 
the project,! I indicated in a letter that in addition to featuring the Petitioner in the 
series, she also selected him to be a special guest at thel IFilm Festival inl I 2020, 
which was ultimately cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Petitioner relies on this project as evidence of his ongoing career and his sustained acclaim in the 
field, noting that his invitation to participate in the series and attend thel I Film Festival as 
an "honored guest" demonstrated continued interest in his work. He further noted that had he attended 
this festival, he undoubtedly would have received significant media attention, both internationally and 
in Zimbabwe.2 While we note that the Petitioner's selection to participate in this project is an honor, 
we note that he was simply the subject of another filmmaker's project and not engaged in the writing, 
directing, or editing of the series. Moreover, the record is devoid of evidence demonstrating that this 
project was actually completed and televised, give~ l's indication that this was a "current" 
project at the time her letter was submitted. We are unable to determine whether the segment featuring 
the Petitioner in this series was actually completed, and if so, whether it highlighted his film 
achievements and his impact upon the industry, or merely described his talents and abilities as a 
filmmaker. Absent such evidence, his selection to appear in this series does not establish that he was 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field as contemplated by Kazarian. 
The Petitioner was awarded! !Award forl lin 2006, and thell 
I !Award and thd If~ I lin 2011 and 2013, respectively. There is no indication, however, that the Petitioner has since 
2 The record contains minimal evidence pertaining to the6 I fjhr Festival, and we therefore afford minimal 
weight to this assertion. The Petitioner submitt¢...a...kll,er fro .__ ___ ~ the festival's executive director, confirming 
the Petitioner's invitation to attend the festival inl__J2020. He states that the festival, "now in id I, is a globally 
recognized international film festival that thrives to bring creative voices from around the world to the big screen and an 
international audience," and that it has premiered many Oscar-nominated films. Aside from this letter, and a screenshot 
of the ferival's webre noting its cancellation due to COVTD-19, there is no evidence supporting these statements. 
Although.__ __ ___,claims that the festival premiered "many" Oscar-nominated films, he only identified one such film 
by name. The record contains no documentation or other independent evidence corroborating the claims set forth in his 
letter, nor is there evidence demonstrating that the festival is routinely attended by influential industry members or that his 
participation in the festival would have garnered significant media attention as he claims. 
4 
written, directed or produced another short film since the release o~ I in 2011. While these 
awards are admirable and demonstrate his recognition in the area of short filmmaking, standing alone 
they are not evidence that the Petitioner has extraordinary ability as an independent filmmaker whose 
work encompasses a wide range of genres including feature films, short films and documentaries. 
While his awards for his short films are acknowledged, they alone do not establish that the Petitioner 
has sustained national or international acclaim or that he has attained the status as one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner's work has appeared at several film festivals, which the Director recognized by granting 
the criterion related to artistic display. But the Petitioner has not established the significance of these 
particular festivals or shown that the festival appearances particularly highlighted the Petitioner's 
involvement in the films in a manner that would reflect or contribute to acclaim. Display of the 
Petitioner's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases consists of screenings of his short 
filmsl I and at thec=J in 2006 and 2011, respectively; screening of his music 
video at th tions in 2013; and screening 
of his feature film.__ ___ ~at the in 2018 and th .__ ___ __,Awards Gala in 2019. As it 
is expected that filmmakers would exhibit their artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate 
the extent to which the display of the Petitioner's work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this 
classification. 
While this evidence demonstrates that his films received additional recognition in the independent 
film field, the record contains little information regarding these festivals. Although the Petitioner 
submitted evidence demonstrating that 150 films and filmmakers attended thel !Awards 
Gala, this evidence, and the minimal evidence submitted relating to the remaining festivals, does not 
indicate that any of the festivals were attended by influential industry members. Further, the Petitioner 
has not established that the selection of his film for these festivals resulted in significant media 
attention or otherwise resulted in national or international recognition. This evidence falls short of 
representing the Petitioner as one who has established sustained acclaim or that he has attained the 
status as one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor. 
The record contains comparatively little evidence regarding the Petitioner's other film projects, which 
include numerous documentary shorts for various humanitarian organizations including thel I I I and I I As constituted, the record lacks sufficient independent evidence of the 
recognition he received or the exact role he played in these projects. With respect to the 
documentaries, it is unclear when, where or in what capacity these projects were released and how 
they were received by audiences and critics, as man of them were documented in the record solely 
through submission of captioned screenshots. who worked with the Petitioner while 
he performed documentary work for the.__ ______________________ _. 
states that the Petitioner "is a great storyteller with a unique ability to understand project objectives 
and translate them into impactfol stories." However, as noted, the record contains little independent 
evidence of the Petitioner's work on documentary films produced for thel I or other 
humanitarian organizations, or the attention he received for this work, to corroborate its claimed 
impact and influence on the Zimbabwean and international film industries. 
Overall, during his 14-year career in his field, the Petitioner has established that he directed one 
award-winning feature film that garnered him national attention in Zimbabwe when it was first 
5 
released and when screened at international festivals in 2017 and 2018. His previous projects, the 
short filmsl I andl I also garnered some local media coverage in Zimbabwe. 
While these projects are noteworthy accomplishments for the Petitioner as a filmmaker, the evidence 
does not establish that they are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work" or that receiving the 
documented level of recognition for three projects during a 14-year career demonstrates a level of 
success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has also submitted testimonial letters that summarize and discuss the Petitioner's 
contributions in the field as a filmmaker. Most of these letters simply recount the Petitioner's career 
history and praise his work rather than offer specific examples of the Petitioner's impact on the field. 
For example,! I Co-Founder ofl I states that "it goes without saying that 
[The Petitioner] has indeed garnered a spot at the top echelon of filmmakers in Zimbabwe and 
internationally." Similarly, a letter froml I a U.S. film producer, discusses his hybrid 
talent as "a director, editor, cinematographer, creative producer, writer, assistant director, and film 
festival jury president," noting that "it is truly unique in this industry for a filmmaker to possess 
extraordinary abilities across different genres of film." I I an actor and filmmaker 
in Zimbabwe, states "I have worked with the likes of Christopher Lee, Sharon Stone, Danny Glover, 
and two time Oscar winner Denzel Washington and Oscar winner Kevin Kline. [The Petitioner] holds 
the same dedication to excellence that I have witnessed in these Hollywood greats." While each of 
these individuals commends the Petitioner's work, they have not established that his work, or any of 
his films, were particularly influential in the Zimbabwean or international film industry such that they 
had an impact of major significance3 in the overall field that contributed to his national or international 
acclaim. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's evidence, we take into account the probative analysis that experts may 
provide in opinion letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions of major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field and their impact on subsequent work add value, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not. 4 While the referenced letters praise the Petitioner's 
talents, accomplishments, and broad experience, they are not sufficiently detailed to support a 
conclusion that he has made impactfol or influential contributions to his field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Regarding the Petitioner's experience judging the work of others, an evaluation of this practice is 
acceptable under Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-11, to determine if such evidence is indicative of the 
extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. The record reflects that the 
Beneficiary was the head juror for the~in 2010, which was a 10-day festival where the Petitioner 
and a panel of jurors screened 26 feature films, 18 short films, and 27 documentaries submitted from 
over 20 countries. Although the Petitioner submitted information regarding some of the winning films, 
the record contains no additional information regarding the festival or the manner in which the awards 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met the original contributions criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
6 
were bestowed, and does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national recogmt10n in the 
field based on his work as a judge in this competition. The record contains minimal background 
information regarding the nature or scope of the 2010 competition, or the level of recognition 
associated with being selected as a judge, and there is no indication that he was selected to serve as a 
judge or juror for similar festivals prior or subsequent to this single appointment. As a result, we 
cannot determine that the Petitioner's judging activities reflect that he is one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Considered in its totality, the evidence in the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary is a talented 
filmmaker who is well-respected within Zimbabwe based on his broad experience in the film industry. 
While his experience is wide-ranging and includes several notable accomplishments, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his artistic achievements at this point of his career, in any one area or as a whole, 
are indicative of one who has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor with sustained national or 
international acclaim, as required. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, after analysis 
of the totality of the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17202685 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
meet the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification through evidence of either a 
major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal I as well as three subsequent motions.2 
The matter is now before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion the to reconsider. 
Because the Petitioner has established that she meets a third criterion, the motion to reopen is granted 
in part and dismissed in part. The petition remains denied. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 See Matter of O-S-, ID# 1291424 (AAO Jul. 5, 2018) 
2 See Matter ofO-S-, ID# 2000787 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019); In Re 5303295 (AAO Jan. 16, 20202); In Re 10599841 (AAO 
Sep. 24, 2020). In February 2019 decision, we concluded that the Petitioner met a second criterion, leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of newfacts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for 
the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal, but to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer who usd I as the focus of her 
work. In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only the criterion relating to the 
display of her work under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). After review of her first motion, we concluded 
2 
that she also met a second criterion for her leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In her last two motions, the Petitioner submitted new evidence in support of her qualification under 
the criteria relating to published material about her and a high salary in relation to others in her field, 
but in both cases we concluded that the new evidence was insufficient to show that she met either 
criteria. 
Here, in her fourth motion, she submits additional evidence in support of those two criteria as well the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original contributions of major significance. 
However, our previous decision did not consider her qualification under this criterion, as she did not 
submit new evidence relating to this criterion with her third motion or state any reasons for 
reconsideration of her qualification under this criterion. 3 We will therefore not consider the new 
evidence or her assertions of error at prior stages of the proceeding with regard to this criterion. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner checked box l .fin Part 2 of Form I-290B to indicate that she is filing a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. However, in her brief the Petitioner only includes a section titled 
"Basis for Motion to Reopen," and does not assert that our previous decision was incorrect based on 
the evidence ofrecord at the time of that decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, she has not 
met the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner first addresses her claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published 
material about her and her work in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
With this motion, she submits new evidence relating to a previously submitted article published in the 
magazine Photographer inl 1 12014. We concluded in our previous decision that although this 
article was about her and her work as a photographer, the record did not establish that the magazine 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. The new evidence includes 
an article indicating that the author of the Photograr her article received the top prize in a photography 
contest, as well as a letter in which I _ a fashion and beauty photographer, describes 
Photographer as a "professional magazine." However, she also submits the same presentation about 
the magazine which was submitted with her previous motion, in which its target audience is described 
as "amateur photographers." This contradictory evidence therefore does not establish that it qualifies 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In addition, the Petitioner points to the index page of Photographer, which states that it is an "Official 
magazine~------------------~ inl I' and submits webpages 
with short descriptions of both organizations. The evidence regarding! I does not explain any 
relationship with the magazine, or how~ such relationship would show it to be a professional 
magazine. Similarly, the evidence aboutL_j indicates that it is a federation of national photographic 
associations, but does not verify or explain any relationship with Photographer. 
3 The Petitioner's most recent mention of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) occurred in her first combined motion. 
in which she specifically stated that she was not submitting additional evidence to meet this criterion. 
3 
The Petitioner also submits evidence about the circulation of several fashion magazines, which appears 
to have been taken from a Vogue Ukraine presskit, and asserts that since it shows that Marie Claire 
has a circulation less than that of Photographer and "is a major media and a competitor," then 
Photographer should be considered as major media." However, these figures do not support either 
magazine's status as a major medium in the Ukraine market, since Marie Claire's are by far the lowest 
of the magazines shown. Further, these circulation figures are for fashion magazines only, and any 
comparison between their circulation figures does not lead to the conclusion that Photographer should 
be considered to be a professional magazine. 
The Petitioner also submits for the first time copies of two articles from Vogue Ukraine, published in I 12013 anO 2014. The latter article, titled I I' reports on the opening of a perfume 
store in D Ukraine, but focuses mainly on the Petitioner and her photos one of which is used in 
the decor of the store. The interviewer asks her about her connection with and her hoto ra h 
of them. The earlier article mentions the Petitioner as a member of a jury for a.__ ______ ___, 
competition, but the article is about the competition. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner also submits print readership figures from a Vogue Ukraine 
presskit, which compares the readership of Vogue Ukraine to three other fashion magazines in Ukraine 
from 2013 to 2019 and cites to an outside source for these figures. According to this information, the 
readership of this magazine was well ahead of the other well-known fashion titles at the time of the 
c=]201
14 puf1ication and at the time of the filing of this petition. Therefore, we conclude that based 
upon the 2014 article in Vogue Ukraine, the Petitioner has established that she meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Further, the Petitioner has included additional evidence with her motion, including an interview of her 
on the website photoindustria.ru, and a contract and invoices related to the Petitioner's design of0 I I for a customer. Although the Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix) relating to a high salary or very high remuneration compared to others in her field, she 
has now met the requisite three criteria to meet the initial evidentiary requirements of this 
classification. Therefore, we will consider this evidence together with the balance of the record when 
conducting a final merits determination. 
C. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
As noted at the outset, the Petitioner describes herself as a photographer, artisan, and fashion designer, 
and has submitted some evidence relevant to each of these pursuits. Because the bulk of the evidence 
concerns her work as a photographer, we will primarily focus on this aspect of her endeavor in our 
analysis. We note that over the course of these proceedings, the Petitioner has submitted several 
documents relating to events which took place after the initial filing of her petition on August 7,2017. 
However, a petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
4 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(I). 
We will therefore not consider such evidence in our analysis. 
The evidence relating to the Petitioner's work as a photographer shows that it has been exhibited on 
two occasions in Ukraine. The first exhibition, titler I I occurred on I I and D 2007 inl Pkraine (known at the time as_ I.) The evidence regarding this 
exhibition includes announcements naming the Petitioner and another artist, photographs of the event, 
and still images of two interviews, together with transcripts of these short interviews by provided by 
the Petitioner. We first note that it is not apparent that the first interview was broadcast on television 
channelO despite the Petitioner's statement and the logo that can be seen on the interviewer's 
microphone, as the source of the images is not apparent. More importantly, even if it was broadcast 
or posted online, the information from Private TVI !indicates that it broadcasts only in that local 
area. 
Similarly, still images submitted from a second video interview of the Petitioner at this event indicate 
that it was done for a program named ' which the record shows is broadcast on television 
channelOanother local or regional channel in.__ __ -,--,_ _ __, However, the video images were 
taken from the Petitioner's Y ouTube account, not channel s. This evidence does not show that this 
interview was either broadcast or distributed in any other way by channelD 
The record shows that print media discussion of this exhibition was also local in nature, as shown by 
a paragraph published in th~ I 2008 issue of Ajisha magazine. The magazine's cover indicates 
that it focuses on events and entertainment in I I and no farther information regarding its 
circulation was provided. Considered together with the video interviews, this evidence does not show 
that the Petitioner gained acclaim beyond I I to the national or international level as a result of 
this exhibition of her photographs. 
The second exhibition of the Petitioner's I I photography,~-------~ occurred at 
th~ I Museum froml I 2017. This is supported by a letter from the museum, 
an announcement and poster about the exhibition, and a brief video report about the exhib~ted 
to the You Tube channel I t The Petitioner submitted information about L___Jbut 
as noted in one of our previous decisions, this was not sufficient to show that it is major media and 
this would have suggested national acclaim. We further note that the screenshots of this video indicate 
that it had been viewed only 23 times at the time, which does not indicate that coverage of this exhibit 
drew wide interest from the public or in the field of photography. Other evidence of media coverage 
of this event included several brief mentions in online blogs. As with the Petitioner's first exhibition 
held 10 years earlier, the totality of the evidence does not show extensive media coverage which would 
signal acclaim for the Petitioner's work at the national or international level. 
We further note that, in a second letter from thel lofthel I Museum, she 
states that the exhibition "was attended by a total of 2,690 viewers, photographers and art collectors, 
which highly praised the collection," and that 6 of the 17 photographs that were exhibited were 
purchased by private collectors. However, there is no indication of whether this was an exceptional 
number of visitors over a two-week period, or whether the number of photographs sold or the amount 
paid reflected a status for the Petitioner as one of the small percentage of photographers at the top the 
field. 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of the display of her photographs in non-artistic settings, 
including a cafe i~ I which was a finalist for a national restaurant award, and a small chain of 
perfume stores in five cities in Ukraine. Letters from the owners of both of these businesses confirm 
that her work decorates their establishments, and they are supported with photographs. In addition, 
ther-----iio14 Vogue Ukraine article discussed above covers the opening of one of the I I 
c==]perfume stores irC::]Ukraine, and states that the Petitioner's photographs "decorate almost 
all the boutiques of this chain." This evidence shows that she has been able to sell herl I 
photographs commercially, and that this work has been mentioned in major, national media on at least 
one occasion. But it does not demonstrate that her work was acclaimed in the field of photography. 
Images of her work as a photographer have also appeared in publications, including the cover of Oscar 
Millionaires Flair magazine for issues published in~------------~ 2010, as well 
as in pages of those and other issues of this magazine. The editor in chief of this magazine stated in a 
letter that the Petitioner partnered with the magazine to provide her prints and write some articles, and 
the record includes information about the circulation of Oscar Millionaires Flair from its own website. 
As we noted in previous decisions in this matter, this evidence, as well as that concerning the magazine 
domus design in which images of her photographs also appeared, did not show that either magazine 
could be considered as a professional or major medium. While she was credited with this work in 
both magazines, the record does not establish that these depictions of her work were indicative of 
acclaim in her field, or brought her further acclaim as a photographer. 
Similarly, as described above, the Petitioner's photographic work was also featured in thec=]2014 
issue of the Ukrainian magazine Photographer. While the evidence indicates that this publication is 
focused on the field of photography, and the accompanying article is complementary of the Petitioner's 
work, we noted above that it is not a professional magazine, and its circulation figures were not 
independently verified. As such, this article shows that the Petitioner's photographs received some 
level of attention in her field at the amateur level. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner submitted an article for the first time with this motion which was 
published on the website photoindustria.ru onl 1201 7, one week before the filing of the instant 
petition. We note that this article, which is an interview of the Petitioner about her work as a 
photographer, does not show the name of its author, and the record does not include information about 
this website other than a brief report from SimilarWeb. Given this lack of supporting information, 
this evidence is of minimal probability. 4 
The Petitioner's work as a photographer also ties in,.u..,....J.J.J.:.L....L.,;J..a.1.LU...."'-'"-""-,l_ashion designer. The record 
includes evidence showing the marketing and sale of and other items featuring her 
photographs and otherl !designs under the " brand, primarily on websites 
such as teespring.com, redbubble.com, and etsy.com. owner of a boutique inl I 
4 We further note that many of the questions asked of the Petitioner in this interview include statements which mirror the 
language of the regulations for this classification. For instance, "You are one of a rare percentage of photographers who 
have extraordinary talent in photography" closely mirrors the definition of "extraordinary ability" at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of 
proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). These statements are also not suppo11ed 
by documentary evidence in the record. 
6 
writes in a letter that her store sold the Petitioner's dresses and tee shirts, and that they were "top 
sellers at our store." The record includes a list of invoices for the sale of pictures, clothing, and other 
items, including some for purchases byl I as well as a small number of those invoices and 
associated receipts, but does not include audited financial statements or tax returns for either the 
Petitioner or her business which might serve to verify these documents and any commercial success 
they may have enjoyed. Further, even ifl ~s statement regarding the sales success of the 
Petitioner's clothing was supported by documentary evidence, this evidence from a single boutique 
would not be sufficient to show acclaim for the Petitioner's work on a broader level. 
Other letters were submitted from individual purchasers ofl I clothing items, including I ~ a buyer for a boutique inl I an~ I who states that she serves 
as the I for the Petitioner's brand. Although these writers and others complement the 
Petitioner's clothing designs and indicate that they enjoy their purchases, such statements do not show 
that Petitioner's status as a top fashion designer. 
The Petitioner' sD clothing designs were also featured in one article in the D 20 l 2 issue of the 
previously mentioned Oscar Millionaires Flair, which introduces herl lbrand and 
includes 4 pictures of a model wearing her dresses. But as previously noted, the Petitioner has not 
shown that this magazine is a professional magazine in the fields of either photography or fashion, and 
that such an article would therefore reflect an elevated or prestigious standing in either field. 
The record also includes evidence of the Petitioner's work as an interior designer, generally using her 
photographs to decorate interiors or as part of a design theme. An example of this includes the 
previously mentioned cafe, which the owner indicates the Petitioner also decorated with framed 
postcards, handmade! I, and a chandelier with~--------~ Another 
example is the article in thd I 2006 issue of domus design, in which she is credited as one of two 
designers for a small apartment. The Petitioner also submitted design prlposalsl and a 201 7 Form 
l 099 showing that she completed work for a bedroom design, including incorporating her I I photography. This evidence verifies that she has infrequently worked as an interior designer, 
but does not show national or international level acclaim for this work. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work as an artisan, pages from her Etsy account show that she created and 
sold I l ::tnd similar items asl I an§s letter indicates that these items were 
also sold along with her tee shirts and dresses at the boutique. A letter from I I 
Creative Director of the I !Museum in Korea, explains that she discovered the 
Petitioner's Etsy account in 2014 and purchased about 50 of thesec=J for display. Considered 
together, the letters establish that the Petitioner has made and sold thesec=J andl I, but does 
not show this activity led to acclaim for her as an artisan. 
The Petitioner has also submitted evidence which she asserts show her earnings from all of the 
activities described above, as well as evidence which she asserts shows that her earnings are high when 
compared to others working in these fields, thus showing that she is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of these fields. As we have noted in our previous decisions, the invoices, receipts, and 
unaudited financial statements submitted are not verifiable evidence of the Petitioner's remuneration. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not established that her earnings of $9800 for the design of a client's 
7 
bedroom, as shown on her 2017 Form 1099, is sufficient to show that her compensation is indicative 
of a status as one of small percentage of interior designers at the top of the field. 
The record further includes a contract between the Petitioner and her current husband dated! I 
D2015, in which he is to provide her with "financial support," as well as invoices indicating that the 
Petitioner received payments in Ukrainian hryvnia under this contract on three occasions. However, 
the source of these payments is not apparent, and this evidence does not demonstrate that these three 
invoices reflect remuneration received by the Petitioner for her work as a photographer, fashion and 
interior designer and artisan. 
The totality of the evidence discussed above shows that the Petitioner has gained some amount of 
notoriety as a photographer and a fashion designer, with two artistic exhibitions of her work primarily 
drawing the attention of local media. She has also had some success in selling her photography for 
commercial settings, and in creating and selling clothing based upon her photographs. However, she 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The petition will therefore remain denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18671058 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of the 
denial. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which we 
also dismissed. The matter is now before us on a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on 
an incorrect application oflaw or users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal after determining that she did establish that she meets any of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In the previous motion to reconsider, we 
observed that the Petitioner restated and described the evidence she submitted under the one-time 
achievement and the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, memberships, published material, judging, 
original contributions, and leading or critical role. 2 Although the Petitioner contended that we erred 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner argued eligibility for the one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and, in the 
alternative, that she met eight criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards or prizes, membership in associations, published material in major media, judging, original 
contributions of major significance in the field, scholarly articles, perfonnance in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) 
(vi), (viii), and (ix). We noted that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets 
the criterion related to display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and that on appeal the Petitioner did not contest the Director's 
finding that she does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. 
2 We noted that the Petitioner's prior motion to reconsider did not address our decisions regarding the scholarly articles 
and high salary criteria. 
2 
in our dismissal of the appeal, she did not attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in our decision 
or establish how we had misapplied the law or USCIS policy in adjudicating her appeal, as required 
for a motion to reconsider. We noted that the Petitioner did not even mention our appellate decision 
and address our specific conclusions, including our determinations on the Director's combined motion 
decision. We further noted that our appellate decision thoroughly analyzed and explained why every 
piece of evidence and arguments addressed in the motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. 
We concluded, therefore, that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in either misapplying 
law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. For these reasons, we dismissed the 
motion to reconsider. 
With respect to the prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted the following new evidence under 
the corres ondin criteria: 1 a certificate from dated December 8 2011 (awards); 2) a letter 
from the L-~---~------------..-------------'- ........... .i..s;d January 3, 2006 
(memberships); 3) letters from .__ _____ __,and dated December 28, 
2012 and January 8, 2003, respectively (judging); 5) letters from~ ____ __,andl I I I dated March 11, 2017 and July 18, 2017, respectively (leading or critical role); and 6) 2005 
Filipino income tax documentation (high salary). We determined that, as the Petitioner did not submit 
these documents before the Director, either at the time she filed the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, we would not consider these claims and documents in our adjudication 
of the motion. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the 
petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it 
for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" 
and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also 
Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). We found that, although the documents pre-date 
her initial filing, the Petitioner did not explain why she did not present these documents before the 
Director. Accordingly, we refused to consider this evidence to determine the Petitioner's eligibility 
under the applicable criteria for the first time on motion. As such, we dismissed her motion to reopen. 
B. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner maintains that we erred in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider but she does 
not specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 3 A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
3 The Petitioner's present motion to reconsider does not address our decisions regarding the one-time achievement and the 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material and original contributions. 
3 
2006). 4 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. 
The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error 
or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") Here, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed our 
most recent decision or stated any reasons for reconsideration of that decision. Nor does she contend 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, or that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. As such, the motion does not 
meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider , and 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) . 
Further, we acknowledge that the Petitioner's claim on motion includes a criticism of users policy 
guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant petitions. 5 This criticism 
includes a rejection of users' reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting a multi-part analysis 
that includes a final merits determination . The Petitioner does not articulate a claim that we misapplied 
this policy in our adjudication of her prior motion to reconsider. Rather, she maintains that we erred 
in our adjudication of the prior motion by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy and 
asserts we should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 
1994), a pre-Kazarian district court decision, and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions 
in adjudicating her prior motion. 6 Because we have already concluded that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that we misapplied the law or users policy in concluding that she did not meet the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we reserve this 
issue. 7 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, she does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USeIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner 's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions . 
D. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 e.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). With respect to the prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner maintains that we erred in not 
considering the aforementioned new evidence offered under the criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, judging, leading or critical role, and high salary. 
4 As noted in our prior decision, O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals, 
governed by 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(b)(l), which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by 
specifying the errors of fact or law in the prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority ." These 
requirements are fundamentally similar to those found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 We note that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court we are not 
bound to follow the published decision of a United States district court in matters arising within the same district. See 
Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). Although the reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given 
due consideration when it is properly before us, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). However , as already discussed, the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian 
and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive. 
4 
In support of the present motion, the Petitioner explains why she did not present these documents 
before the Director. In her brief, she asserts that these documents "could have been presented in the 
initial stage but because of the string [sic] typhoon that hit the Philippines at the time or before the 
initial filing, these documents were not previously available" and "these new evidences were hardly 
located and presented in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic." In addition, in an unsworn statement the 
Petitioner provides that the new documents "were unavailable during the initial submission for the 
reason that I have to ask my brother to dig and look into my old bunch of files in the garage." Here, 
however, we do not find that the Petitioner's new evidence overcomes our previous finding that she 
does not meet at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
As it relates to the criterion for lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner asserted on motion that she had 
received such an award, as demonstrated by a certificate fromc=] dated December 8, 2011. USCIS 
policy guidance provides that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the 
prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 8 The award 
certificate indicates it was an "Award for Excellence given to [the Petitioner] recognizes leaders who 
share Te opplrtunity & mentor others to build their own successfolD business," and was conferred 
by an branch manager in I I Philippines. However, the certificate was not 
accompanied by any information regarding the award or the national or international recognition 
associated with it, such as news media articles or other relevant documentation. In addition, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence demonstrating that mentoring others in building a successful I I business is in the same or an allied field of administrative services management, and therefore 
that this award was given for excellence in her field of endeavor. Therefore, this document does not 
overcome our previous finding that the Petitioner does not meet the criterion regarding lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Regarding the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), in the Petitioner's prior motion she 
provided a letter froml I a coordinator with the I I dated January 3, 2006. D I I acknowledges the Petitioner's membership inl I which he indicates "helps our 
members become more effective on the job by teaching the human aspect of management via 
numerous career development forums and trainings." While this letter confirms that the Petitioner 
was a member of1 I and its mission, the record lacks documentation, such as bylaws, membership 
requirements, or other appropriate evidence, establishing that the organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 9 For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's additional evidence on motion does 
not demonstrate that she satisfies the regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (indicating 
that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or international 
significance). 
9 Id. (providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that 
requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition 
of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
5 
As it pertains to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) , in support of the Petitioner 's 
prior motion she submitted 2005 Filipino income tax documentation. The burden is on the Petitioner 
to provide appropriate evidence, including, but not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate 
compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the compensation data, 
demonstrating that she meets this criterion. 1° Further, a petitioner working in a different country must 
be evaluated based on the wage statistics or corn arable evidence in that country.11 Here the income 
tax documentation reflects that in 2005 paid the Petitioner a gross annual salary of P420,000 
while she was working in ------ Philippines. Therefore , appropriate evidence may be 
compensation surveys reflecting the wages for administrative service managers in the Petitioner's 
geographic area in the Philippines , or other appropriate materials . 
The Petitioner provided 2005 Fili ino income tax documentation for a colleague.I I l reflectin that received a gross annual salary of P_l_3_7_,4_0_0-.0-0_w_h-il~e 
working in _____ -Philippines , and an undated identification badge indicating her position as 
an administrative manager. The Petitioner claims that "due to my advanced level of expertise and 
extensive experience, I am grateful to have commanded a higher amount in salary compared to her." 
However , salary information obtained from only one individual does not reliably represent industry 
salaries. Without appropriate evidence of the average salary earned by administrative service 
managers in the Petitioner 's geographic area in the Philippines , the Petitioner has not provided 
documentation sufficient to establish whether she has commanded a high salary in relation to others 
in her field. Therefore , the Petitioner has not overcome our previous finding that she does not meet 
the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) . 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner's new evidence does not overcome our previous 
determination that she does not meet the regulatory criteria relating to awards, membership, or high 
salary. Although in the present motion the Petitioner also claims that she meets the criteria related to 
judging and leading or critical role, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them, as the Petitioner 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).12 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our latest decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, and the evidence provided in support of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed . 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed . 
io Id. 
11 Jd. 
12 See Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19335708 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sound editor and designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Petitioner has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, 
internationally recognized award), or that he meets at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As set forth below, we will reject the appeal. 
The record reflects that the Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, and the Form G-28, Notice of 
Entry of Apf earance of Attorney or Accredited Representative accompanying the appeal were signed 
by attorney I and not the Petitioner , in the spaces designated for such 
signatures . 
Other than the exceptions specifically provided therein, the regulations do not permit any individual 
who is not the petitioner to sign a benefit request. Specifically , the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2) 
provides : 
Signature. An applicant or petitioner must sign his or her benefit request. However, a 
parent or legal guardian may sign for a person who is less than 14 years old. A legal 
guardian may sign for a mentally incompetent person. By signing the benefit request, 
the applicant or petitioner, or parent or guardian certifies under penalty of perjury that 
the benefit request, and all evidence submitted with it, either at the time of filing or 
thereafter , is true and correct. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, an acceptable 
signature on [a] benefit request that is being filed with the USCIS is one that is either 
handwritten or, for benefit requests filed electronically as permitted by the instructions 
to the form, in electronic format. 
Part 4 of the Form I-290B (Applicant's or Petitioner 's Statement, Contact Information, Certification, and 
Signature) instructs the filer of an appeal based on a petition filed by an individual to "complete this 
section." This section, however, includes the attorney's telephone number and email address, and bears 
the attorney's signature in subsection 6.a which is designated for the Petitioner's signature . Thus, Part 4 
of the Form I-290B was not completed correctly and lacks the requisite signature of the Petitioner. The 
lack of a proper signature at subsection 6.a invalidates the contents of the "Petitioner's Certification" that 
appears above the signature, in particular the closing sentence which reads, in pertinent part: "I certify, 
under penalty of perjury, that all of the information in my form and any document submitted with it were 
provided or authorized by me, that I reviewed all of the information in, and submitted with, my form, and 
that all of this information is complete, true and correct." In fact, there is no evidence that the Petitioner 
reviewed the Form I-290B, and he did not certify that the information therein is complete, true and correct. 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not complete Part 4 in accordance with the instructions on the Form I-290B.1 
We observe that the record contains a statement submitted with the Form 1-140 entitled "To Whom it 
May Concern," signed by both the Petitioner and.__ _________ _. which states as follows: 
I, [Petitioner ], resident o~ I Nepal, in my full and conscious capacity, hereby 
authorize ! I A resident of California, USA to sign on my 
behalf, in all the fonns and applications, which are necessary to complete my petition 
for employment related Immigrant Visa to the USCIS. 
I declare that her signing of the necessary documents is fully consented and I will not 
deny or claim against any of her discretionary signature, throughout the process of my 
application . 
I have voluntarily signed and sent this letter tq I via email. 
Her signature is included below in this letter and the letter will be in full force once she 
signs below. 
While we acknowledge that the Petitioner purportedly delegated his attorney to act on his behalf, this 
document does not satisfy USCIS signature requirements. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, 
a benefit requestor must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with USCIS. 2 
1 The Fonn G-28 accompanying the appeal was also not properly executed as it does not bear the Petitioner 's signature . 
According the 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a), an appearance must be filed on the appropriate form as prescribed by DHS by the 
attorney or accredited representative appearing in each case. The form must be properly completed and signed by the 
petitioner, applicant, or respondent to authorize representation in order for the appearance to be recognized by DHS. 
(Emphasis added). 
2 See 1 USCIS Policy ManualB.2, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-l-part-b-chapter-2 ; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(2). 
2 
Finally, we note that the underlying Fonn 1-140 petition was also executed byl ______ _ I I and not the Petitioner. 3 Although the Director reviewed the petition based on its merits, the 
petition was improperly filed as it was not properly signed, and thus should have been rejected by the 
Director at the time of filing. 4 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B) and (a)(2)(i), only an affected party may appeal an unfavorable 
decision. Here, the appeal was filed by I ! who is not the "affected party" in 
this proceeding. We will therefore reject the appeal as improperly filed. 
ORDER: The appeal is rejected. 
3 Box 8.a of the Fonn 1-140 petition, designated for the Petitioner 's certification under penalty of perjury, is signed by ________ __.not the Petitioner. 
4 Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A) , a petition which is not properly signed shall be rejected as improperly filed, 
and no receipt date assigned to the petition. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19297197 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cybersecurity firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director dismissed both 
motions. The Petitioner appealed that decision to us, and we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now 
before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision and be supported by any 
pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion to reconsider is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i). Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reconsider the denial of the petition 
or the Director's dismissal of the Petitioner's first motion. Instead, the filing is a motion to reconsider 
our most recent decision. Therefore, we would not consider new objections to the earlier denial, and 
the present filing is not the place to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
The immediate question before us is not whether the Director erred in denying the petition or 
dismissing the earlier combined motion, which we considered in our appellate decision, but whether 
we erred in dismissing the appeal. We will, however, discuss earlier steps in the proceeding to provide 
necessary context. 
2 
The Petitioner filed its petition in December 2019; the Director initially denied the petition in March 
2020. In the March 2020 decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had met three of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), relating to participation as a judge of the work of 
others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not met three other claimed criteria, pertaining to membership in 
associations that require outstanding achievements; a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations; and high salary or other remuneration for services. Having granted three of the initial 
criteria, the Director then rendered a final merits determination, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
established that the Beneficiary had achieved sustained national or international acclaim among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field, as the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner filed its combined motion in May 2020, arguing that it had established the necessary 
acclaim, and submitting further evidence in an attempt to support that argument. The Director 
dismissed the combined motion in August 2020, noting that much of the new evidence concerns events 
that occurred after the petition's filing date, which cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The Petitioner appealed that decision in October 2020. The appellate brief consisted primarily of 
arguments that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's sustained acclaim. The most direct 
reference to the Director's October 2020 decision was the Petitioner's assertion that, while some of 
the evidence came into existence after the petition's filing date, "all the work done by [ the Beneficiary] 
that led to his recognition was done prior to the filing date." 
We dismissed the appeal in May 2021, focusing, as the Petitioner had done, on the assertion that the 
Beneficiary has achieved sustained acclaim. 
On motion from the May 2021 decision, the Petitioner states: "We are filing this Motion to Reconsider 
so that the AAO [ Administrative Appeals Office] may redetermine that the District Director [sic] did 
in fact err in dismissing the Petitioner's previous motions to reopen and reconsider and ultimately 
denial [sic] the underlying petition considering the totality of the evidence." 
In its latest motion, the Petitioner identifies a number of claimed errors in the Director's August 2020 
decision, stating, for example, that the Director did not sufficiently explain the grounds for dismissal 
of the motion. The time to raise these objections would have been in the October 2020 appeal, but the 
Petitioner did not allege these errors at that time. It is the Petitioner's burden to identify specifically 
any erroneous conclusion oflaw or statement of fact as a basis for appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The Petitioner's untimely objections to newly alleged errors do not amount to good cause for 
reopening the proceeding; we did not err by failing to anticipate those objections or make them on the 
Petitioner's behalf As such, the Petitioner's new assertions do not identify errors of law or policy in 
our previous decision. 
The Director's August 2020 motion decision did not include detailed discussion of several merits 
issues because the Director had already made those determinations in the initial March 2020 denial 
notice. Our May 2021 appellate decision focused on merits issues because the Petitioner's appellate 
brief emphasized those issues. 
3 
Turning to those substantive issues, the Petitioner reiterates and expands upon prior assertions that the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim is evident from the following factors: 
• Membership in Sigma Xi and senior membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers (IEEE); 
• Invitations to participate in panel discussions at professional conferences; 
• Publication of scholarly articles, cited by others in the field; and 
• Letters from various clients. 
We addressed each of these issues in our May 2021 dismissal. On motion, the Petitioner maintains 
that the factors discussed above suffice to establish the Beneficiary's sustained acclaim, but the 
Petitioner's arguments in this regard are not persuasive. For example, regarding memberships, the 
Petitioner asserts that well-known figures such as Albert Einstein and Linus Pauling were senior 
members of the IEEE. It does not follow that every senior member has comparable stature to these 
Nobel laureates. We explained, in our last decision, that the documented requirements for senior 
member status appear to fall well below the statutory threshold of sustained national or international 
acclaim The Petitioner, on motion, does not establish that acclaim is intrinsic to any of the senior 
membership requirements discussed. We also previously noted that the IEEE has a higher level of 
membership, "Fellow," with more stringent requirements. It also bears repeating that, while the IEEE 
solicits applications for senior membership, members cannot apply or nominate themselves for fellow 
status. 
The Beneficiary was not yet a member of Sigma Xi when the Petitioner filed the petition. As noted, 
a Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). We acknowledge 
the Petitioner's argument that the Beneficiary's achievements necessarily predate the recognition for 
those achievements, but it is the recognition that constitutes acclaim. Also, as discussed in our last 
decision, membership in Sigma Xi requires only "noteworthy achievement," defined so loosely as to 
encompass a great number of productive researchers. 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's "[p ]articipation in the research panels necessarily 
required acclaim," and that "he would not have been invited" otherwise. The Petitioner does not 
identify any record evidence to establish that the particular panel invitations were based on acclaim 
rather than some lower threshold, such as subject matter expertise. The assertions of counsel do not 
constitute evidence, 1 and thus cannot amount to the "extensive documentation" that section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act demands. 
The Petitioner asserts that "enthusiastic and public praise" is, by definition, acclaim, and that other 
researchers have offered such praise by citing the Beneficiary's articles in their own scholarly work. 
The Petitioner has not shown that scholarly citation amounts to "enthusiastic and public praise," rather 
than acknowledgment of source material as required by standards of scholarly integrity. Citation of 
one's work is not a rare accolade achieved only by a small percentage at the very top of the field. 
1 See Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988); Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 
(BIA 1980). 
4 
Furthermore, the Petitioner does not establish that the Beneficiary's work is among the most highly­
cited in his field, which might have distinguished him from others publishing in the same field. 
In our May 2021 decision, we discussed letters that the Petitioner had submitted in support of its May 
2020 motion: 
In the context of the Beneficiary's acclaim, it is significant that the letters submitted on 
motion focused on the services that the Petitioner provided. Some letters did not 
mention the Beneficiary at all; others did so only to identify him as a member or leader 
of the team providing those services .... 
These letters amount to testimonials from satisfied clients; they do not show that the 
Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
On motion, the Petitioner emphasizes that "these letters are from well-established leaders around the 
U.S. and they are discussing work that can only be accomplished by a select few and [ the Beneficiary] 
was critical to the work being done." The Petitioner also contends that these letters express 
"enthusiastic and public praise," and, thus, acclaim. 
From the context, and because the Petitioner provides no specific details about the letters, we cannot 
determine whether the Petitioner is referring to letters submitted on motion, or a different group of 
letters submitted in support of the underlying petition. Any reference on motion to the earlier letters 
would not establish error in our last decision. (The Petitioner had submitted the earlier letters as 
evidence of the Beneficiary's original contributions to his field, and the Director granted the 
"contributions" criterion in the March 2020 decision.) 
As we noted in our prior decision, some of the letters submitted on motion do not mention the 
Beneficiary at all. The Petitioner does not explain how unpublished correspondence constitutes 
"public praise." The Beneficiary's involvement in projects for various clients is not intrinsically 
evidence of sustained national acclaim, regardless of the identities of those clients. Apart from the 
lack of corroboration, the assertion that the Beneficiary's "work can only be accomplished by a select 
few" speaks to the number of workers in a particular specialty, rather than the acclaim that those 
workers enjoy. (A high degree of specialization, by itself: does not constitute, or convey, acclaim.) 
The letters do not establish acclaim; they describe the work performed by a team of the Petitioner's 
employees, including the Beneficiary. 
The Petitioner has not identified errors of law or policy in our May 2021 decision, and its assertions 
of adjudicative error rely heavily on subjective or uncorroborated assertions as to what constitutes 
acclaim in the Beneficiary's field. Therefore, the Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1834 7280 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an infectious disease clinician, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
established that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested 
classification , of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary 's international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary received his Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and Doctor of 
Medicine degrees in general medicine froml !Medical College in India in 2004 and 2007, 
res ectively. In 2013, he completed his medical residency in internal medicine atl I College in 
Texas. Between 2013 and 2016, he completed a three-year fellowship in infectious disease '----------, m Minnesota. Since 2016, the Beneficiary has been employed by 
....._ ____________________ __., a hospital located inl JNorth at the 
Carolina, as an infectious disease physician. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria,judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates 
that the Beneficiary has peer-reviewed manuscripts for several journals including American Journal 
of Transplantation, BMJ Case Reports, and Clinical Microbiology and Infection. In addition, the 
Beneficiary has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Clinical Infectious 
Diseases, Open Forum Infectious Diseases, and Journal of Virology. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it meets the three additional criteria discussed below. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has the beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility for this criterion based on the Beneficiary's published research, citation record, letters from 
experts in the field, and other evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the Beneficiary has established himself as a gifted medical 
researcher, who has made original scientific contributions of major significance in the field of 
infectious disease, most notably in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) cure research and 
transplant/surgical medicine. 2 Here, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of the Beneficiary's research through recommendation letters praising him for his 
contributions, the letters are lacking detail explaining how his research findings have already been 
widely accepted and implemented in the field to the extent that they have been regarded as 
contributions of major significance. In general, the letters recount the Beneficiary's research and 
findings, and indicate their publication in journals. 
For example, the Petitioner provided letters from I I the Beneficiary's 
fellowship mentor at l I and I I the chair ofl ts 
molecular medicine department, which state that the Beneficiary was the primary researcher on a studv 
that focused on finding a cure for HIV which resulted in his 2017 Plos One article titled I ] 
,__ _ _,First, we note the multiple identical statements in those letters suggest that their language was 
not written independently. While it is acknowledged that the authors have provided their support for 
this petition, it is unclear whether the letters reflect their independent observations and thus an 
informed and unbiased opinion of the Beneficiary's work. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to 
be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
The aforementioned letters provide that the Beneficiary's research confirmed, for the first time, that 
In addition, 
.__ __ __.speaks to the potential or future benefit of the Beneficiary's work, stating that his research 
"opened the door to other avenues of HIV cure research and expanded the boundaries of our 
knowledge regarding innovative HIV cure strategies" and that "human studies usmg the drugs 
identified in the Beneficiary's research are in the planning stages atl I' but his 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
assertions do not demonstrate the Beneficiary 's research has already had an impact or influence 
commensurate with "major significance." 
Further,! I asserts that the Beneficiary 's HIV cure research findings resulted in I l's 
obtainment of a renewal of National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding "because his research provided 
critical data supporting a pilot HIV cure study in HIV positive patients." However, receiving funding 
to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself. Rather, the evidence 
must establish that receiving the grant is reflective of the Beneficiary's past work's major significance, 
or that his research conducted with the NIH grant resulted in a contribution of major significance in 
the field. I ts recommendation letter confirming that the Beneficiary's contributions directly 
led to the renewal of NIH funding, however, does not sufficiently illustrate how the funding reflects 
the importance of the Beneficiary's contributions, nor does it indicate the research results of the NIH 
funding and whether they are majorly significant in the field . 
...._ __________ __, program director of.__ ____________ ___, Fellowship 
Training Program, described the findings of the Beneficiary 's research study, published in his 2016 
Open Forum Infectious Diseases article title I I 
He notes that the Beneficiary's article reported that, in the two years prior, 
units used i surgery were the suspected source o~ I contamination 
outbreaks o~._--r ___ ........ .,.tients in three European countries, and it also examined the first three 
known cases of .__ ___ _,in U.S. patients who had similarly undergone I I surgeries. D 
.__ __ ___.!states that the article was the first to identify that, when present, this type of infection 
commonly exists in the eye, but he does not explain how that research finding went on to significantly 
impact or influence the field. 
We note that the record does not support the assertion that in response to the Beneficiary 's 2016 Open 
Forum Infectious Diseases article the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (F~'· d its 
monitoring of I f ases and implemented mass screening of units 
across the country," as mamtamed by the Petitioner and apparently confirmed by and 
.__ ________ __, also ofl I Rather, articles previously submitted by the 
Petitioner indicate that the Beneficiary's article was preceded by the FDA's June 1, 2016, notification 
to hospitals to determine a method for patient follow-up and establish patient surveillance in the case 
of potential exposure, and its June 2016 recommendations forl I unit sampling and 
monitoring. 3 We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion statements from universities, 
professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony . However, 
where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we are not 
required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 
(Comm'r 1988). Further, the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary's research in this area 
was deemed a contribution of major significance in the field. 
3 Those articles include a renort from the FDA with information current throw,hl I 2020 titled i 
:======i...'a~nd a 2021 article froml __ -..._ ____ ___,I titled I.__ ________________ .... -~~--- .... I' which do not reference the Beneficiary by name or his 2016 Open Forum Infectious Diseases article 
in discussin actions taken b the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in response to the risk 
4 
further rovides that the Beneficia was the lead author of the 2017 EBioMedicine 
article titled 
,--!===========.---=--~ and was the first U.S. researcher to identify and prove that ~I---~ 
.__ _______ ___. typically found in the can be transmitted from an organ 
donor to an organ recipient during trans lant surgery. He indicates that the 
Beneficiary's research study examine trans lantation records between 
1998 and 2015 and identified 7 previously unreported cases of nfection. He 
asserts that the Beneficiary's findings "resulted in.__ ____ ___. and other hospitals modifying the 
way in which organs are screened before they are transplanted" to include screening forl.__ ___ ___. 
but he does not identify any other hospitals who have changed their pre-op surgery procedures as a 
result of the Beneficiary's research findings to support this claim. Regardless of the field of endeavor, 
the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an 
impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. Visinscaia 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-135. He does 
not explain how the Beneficiary's work in that area has been particularly influential or impactful in 
the field or explain how it has been applied by others, so as to constitute a contribution of major 
significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Here, the letters do not contain detailed information showing the substantial influence the 
Beneficiary's contributions have had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). Here, the letters do not, for example, indicate that therapeutic treatments were being 
developed as a result of the Beneficiary's research, that his clinical or research work has already had 
a widespread impact, or that it substantially influenced the nature or direction of research being 
conducted in his area of specialty, and the record does not contain supporting evidence demonstrating 
this influence. The record does not contain evidence sufficient to support the Petitioner's claim that 
the Beneficiary's work has already had a major influence in his field such as, for example, by 
significantly influencing treatment practices, development of therapeutics, or the direction of further 
research. 
In addition, the Beneficiary's publications and citation history, considered independently and in 
context with the evidence as a whole, are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. The record provides 
evidence that the Beneficiary has published his research. Such evidence verifies that the Beneficiary 
has shared his original research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from 
others in the field is such that it supports a finding that his work rises to the level of "contributions of 
major significance" in the field. For example, peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have 
provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries 
(particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the beneficiary's work as authoritative in 
the field, may be probative of the significance of their contributions to the field of endeavor. 5 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 Ibid. 
5 
Regarding his citations, within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google 
Scholar reflecting the Beneficiary's scholarly publications have received 229 cumulative citations. 
Specifically, the record shows that his three most cited articles at the time of filing received 79 
(Clinical Infectious Diseases), 61 (Open Forum b1fectious Diseases), and 48 (Journal of Virology), 
citations, respectively. 6 Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field 
has taken interest in a beneficiary's work; however, the fact that a beneficiary has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not presented evidence that establishes that the citation numbers 
recorded in Google Scholar confirm that one or more of the Beneficiary's publications has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with 
"contributions of major significance in the field." Nor has the Petitioner shown that the Beneficiary's 
work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant 
way. 
Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, 
that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the 
Beneficiary's research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. Although the 
Beneficiary's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he did not establish 
that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" as required by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citation 
statistics and the reference letters from his colleagues establishes that the Beneficiary has been 
productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own 
research. It does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary has made an original contribution of major 
significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of the Beneficiary's articles in 
highly ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and 
work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high 
ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. For the reasons discussed above, 
considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the evidence establishes the Beneficiary's leading or critical 
role fo~ I in his current position as an infectious disease specialist and its distinguished 
reputation. It also maintains that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role as an infectious disease 
6 The Beneficiary's remaining 13 articles and !medical textbook each garnered between O and 11 citations. 
6 
fellow atl I The Director found that the Petitioner established the Beneficiary's critical 
role forl lbut did not show it has a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a beneficiary is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
beneficiary's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 8 
~ing the Beneficiary's current position, the Petitioner references a letter froml I L_J the senior vice president of medical affairs ofj I who asserts that the Beneficiary 
has performed in a critical role for the hospital as its first infectious disease clinician and the chair of 
the infectious disease department. I I provides that the Beneficiary has developed and 
implemented the department and its outpatient practice and treated infectious disease cases that 
involve other departments such as cardiology, orthopedics, and obstetrics and gynecology, but he does 
not specify what duties those positions entail beyond the typical duties of a physician. In addition, he 
highlights the Beneficiary's roles on several of the hospital's committees, programs, and teams, 
including as treasurer of the executive committee, director of the internal medicine residency program, 
chair of the infection prevention and control committee, and designated safety officer of the hospital 
incident management team. The record contains additional documentation showing that in his position 
as designated safety officer the Beneficiary organized trainings to educate hospital staff on the CDC's 
COVID-19 prevention measures, testing criteria, and treatment recommendations between April 2020 
and the date when the petition was filed in June 2020. 
Here, the testimonial and documentary evidence did not provide sufficient context to show that the 
Beneficiary's positions in these bodies constituted a leading or critical role for~------~ The 
documentation submitted establishes that the Beneficiary performed admirably in his role as an 
infectious disease clinician, but it does not offer probative details explaining how his role is a "leading" 
role based on his placement within the hospital's organizational structure,9 or provide sufficient 
support for a finding that his role was of significant importance to the hospital's standing or success 
consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
Further, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate thatl !qualifies as an organization 
or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record shows that the hospital received a rating of 4 out of 5 stars in a 2020 survey of discharged 
patients by the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems, on such topics 
as nurse, doctor, and medical staff communication, and hospital cleanliness and quietness. However, 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix. 
8 Id. 
9 The Petitioner provided an undated organizational chart of the positions and departments oti O I but it does 
not show where the Beneficiary's position fit within that organizational structure and it is unclear ifit represents the general 
hierarchy of I I at the time when the petition was filed. For instance, although the chati indicates the 
existence of a board of directors, several medical staff officer positions, and medical staff departments, the infectious 
disease depm1ment is not listed. Nor does the record contain other evidence documenting how the Beneficiary's position 
fit within the general hierarchy of I I and differentiated him from its other principal doctors and medical 
staff department leaders, let alone its senior managerial staff. 
7 
a survey measuring patients' perceptions of their hospital experience does not demonstrate that the 
organization has a distinguished reputation in the field. Similarly, the Petitioner previously submitted I l's parent company's 2018 Annual Report and 2016 Research Highlights Report, and a 
Management Services Agreement showing I I is part of a network of more than 600 care 
locations, but the Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the 
hospital, and how its reputation compares to similar establishments, or how its successes or 
accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
RegardinJ the Beneficiary's former position withl lin their aforementioned letter~ I and I I assert that I Is obtainment of NIH funding for a pilot HIV cure 
study based on the Beneficiary's HIV cure research findings demonstrates "the critical role he played 
during his fellowship atl I Although the Beneficiary has performed admirably on 
research projects, those letters do not rovide sufficient support for a finding that the Beneficiary's 
fellowship role, while vital to s pilot HIV cure study, was of significant importance to the 
standing or success o .__ _____ _, onsistent with the meaning of "critical role." In light of the 
above, the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this criterion for the first time on appeal because "he 
commands a high salary in relation to other infectious disease physicians." However, as the Petitioner 
did not claim the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion before the Director, either at the time it 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this claim 
in our adjudication ofthis appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
8 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19390244 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 22, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chef, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner bad satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider that decision. The Director granted 
the motion and again denied the petition. The Petitioner appealed that decision to us, and we dismissed 
the appeal. 
The Petitioner contested our appellate decision in a filing which he, at various times, called both an 
appeal and a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. We dismissed the Petitioner's filing as 
untimely. The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Upon 
review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration , identify errors of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) policy, and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord 
at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration , a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on April 28, 2020. On July 30, 2020, the Petitioner filed Form 
I-290B to contest our decision. 
On June 2, 2021, we dismissed the Petitioner's filing as untimely, stating: 
We are dismissing your Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, because it was 
untimely filed. You must file a motion on an unfavorable decision within 33 calendar 
days of the date we mailed the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). As well, on 
March 30, 2020, USCIS issued Leadership Guidance providing flexibility allowing up 
to 60 days from the date of the decision for the submission of a Form I-290B. 1 On 
April 28, 2020, we mailed the unfavorable decision to you. Your Form I-290B was 
received at the designated filing location on July 30, 2020, which is 93 days after the 
decision. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: "As a result of COVID-19 restrictions, USCIS has created guideline 
flexibility in responding to certain requests. The guidelines state[]: 'USCIS will consider a response 
to the above requests and notices received within 60 calendar days after the response due date set in 
the request or notice before taking action."' The Petitioner asserts that this guidance added 60 days to 
the motion's original filing deadline of May 30, 2021, and that, therefore, his July 30, 2021 filing was 
timely. 
The March 2020 Leadership Guidance, however, added 60 days to the response time for "certain 
Requests for Evidence (RFE) and Notices oflntent to Deny (NOID)" and similar requests and notices. 
The same guidance also specified: "Any Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days/ram the date 
of the decision will be considered by USCIS before it takes any action" (emphasis added). Subsequent 
extensions likewise specified the same period of 60 days from the date of the decision; it did not add 
60 days to the existing filing period.2 We note that Form I-290B is not a "response" to a notice or 
request, representing continuing action in the context of an existing benefit request. Rather, it is a 
filing which initiates a new stage in the proceeding, requiring its own decision or other disposition. 
USCIS guidance separately refers to the Form I-290B timeframe. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that we erred by dismissing his July 2021 filing 
as untimely. 
When the Petitioner filed Form I-290B in July 2020, he indicated that a supplement would follow. 
We received the supplemental filing on August 12, 2020. After taking these actions, the Petitioner 
indicated in March 2021 that he intended the filing to be a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, 
rather than an appeal. 
While the regulations permit a petitioner to supplement an appeal that has already been filed, there is 
no similar provision for motions. Rather, a motion to reconsider must be complete "when filed." See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). With respect to motions to reopen, the regulations acknowledge that new facts, 
which warrant a motion to reopen, may arise after the deadline to file a timely motion. Rather than 
allowing a placeholder filing followed by a supplement, however, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
1 See "'USCIS Expands Flexibility for Responding to USCIS Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-expands­
flexibility-for-responding-to-uscis-requests. 
2 See https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts for a searchable database that includes periodic extensions of the flexibility period. 
2 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i) gives us discretion to accept an untimely motion to reopen "where it is demonstrated 
that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner." Here, the 
Petitioner has not established any reasonable delay, beyond his control, that prevented him from filing 
the motion to reopen within the 60 days permitted by the USCIS Leadership Guidance. 
The Petitioner states, in his current motion, that he "reiterated his excusable delay," but the July 2020 
filing included no explanation or acknowledgment of the delay in filing. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner's August 2020 supplement was not properly incorporated into 
the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. 
Finally, the Petitioner's latest filing includes arguments regarding the merits of his underlying petition, 
and disputing the conclusions in our April 2020 appellate decision. By regulation, a motion is limited 
to "the prior decision" in the proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Our April 2020 decision did 
not address the merits of the petition; it was limited to the procedural issue of timeliness. Therefore, 
any assertions of error with regard to the merits would not constitute grounds for reconsideration. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. 
We will also dismiss the motion to reopen. The Petitioner cites, and quotes, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2), which requires the Petitioner to state new facts, but the Petitioner has not stated any new 
facts. Instead, the motion rests on procedural arguments. The Petitioner also resubmits the brief and 
exhibits that he submitted in August 2020, but these materials were already in the record and do not 
represent new facts or new evidence. The Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the requirements of 
a motion to reopen, and therefore we must dismiss that motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19961825 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a doctoral student and teaching assistant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability in the field of mathematics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or showing that he 
received a major, internationally-recognized award. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a doctoral student and teaching assistant at the University ofl I I I and has stated that he intends to pursue a teaching career at this or another institution. He holds 
a master of science degree in mathematics fromc=]and another from the I I 
University of Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
three evidentiary criteria discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that he does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
As evidence of meeting the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted reference letters 
describing his activities as a teaching assistant and student mentor aO ~--------~ 
the Petitioner's current advisor, states that the Petitioner mentors several undergraduate students, 
which he describes as "beyond the call of duty" and "an indication of [the Petitioner's] commitment 
to mentoring, teaching, and developin as a leader." Further details of the mentorship program in 
which the Petitioner participates, th...__ ____ __,..-----~-~---------' are provided 
b~ la fellow doctoral candidate at He notes that mentors and students spend several 
hours per week in researching an area of math, and that at the end of each academic quarter the students 
in the program give presentations. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the presentations are a "competition-like element" of thd 
program, and that they are evaluated by a panel. However, neither the letter from I I or the 
information from thel ~ebpage in the record mention these evaluation panels described by the 
Petitioner, nor is there any indication that he served on such a panel. In addition, this evidence does 
not support the Petitioner's assertion that his mentoring of students in the I I program involves 
judging the work of others in the field. The information froml I describes the program as a 
quarter-long reading project in which undergraduate student mentees meet with the graduate student 
mentors on a weekly basis to discuss readings. While his mentoring activity is not part of the 
Petitioner's duties as a teaching assistant, the evidence does not demonstrate that it involves judging 
of the work of others in the field. We therefore agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director stated that the Petitioner's papers inl lcould not be considered to have 
been published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, nor could unpublished 
conference papers. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider the evidence 
of his publications in Russian journals, as well as a textbook "used by hundreds of students." He notes 
that these journals include Inverse Problems, Differential Equations, and SIAM Journal on Control 
and Optimization. While the evidence shows that the Petitioner authored an article which was 
published in Inverse Problems inl I 2015, there is no evidence of the publication of his work 
in the other two publications claimed. We further note the evidence shows that abstracts of papers 
presented by the Petitioner at several conferences were published in the proceedings of those 
conferences. As such, we disagree with the Director and find that the Petitioner has established that 
he meets this criterion. 
II. CONCLUSION 
We conclude that the Petitioner meets the criterion relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, but 
does not satisfy the criterion regarding his service as a judge of the work of others. Although he also 
claims to meet an additional criterion relating to original scientific contributions of major significance, 
we need not reach this additional claim. Because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement for this classification by meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
we reserve this issue. 1 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11863712 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a contemporary Christian music producer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a chief executive producer at ~-------~ I I, a parent company of various subsidiaries, in Venezuela since 2002. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
show that she garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that her achievements have 
been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that she is one of that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she satisfies additional criteria, and her evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already shown 
that she satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to her initial cover letter, the Petitioner has been the chief executive producer ofj I 
since 2002. In addition, she has served as the production manager for artist I I 
employed as lead producer for artistl I's tours and concerts in Venezuela, and co-founded I I a Christian music band from Colombia. As indicated above, the Petitioner won an 
award, received some press coverage, and participated as a judge. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements rise to a level of "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Immediately prior to the filing of her petition, the Petitioner received anl JA ward for her 
participation as an executive producer on the album,I lbyl Although the 
award reflects some recognition of her work by the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how this 
recent, single instance shows a "career of acclaimed work in the field" and demonstrates sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Further, the Petitioner did not establish, for instance, how her receipt of this sole award compares 
to those in the upper echelon of her field, placing her among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Similarly, regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered four items reflecting published material 
about her in 2006, 2008, 2017, and 2019. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such 
minimal press coverage, without any media reporting of her in a span of nine years, is consistent with 
the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show how her overall media coverage 
is indicative of a level of success with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting on her and her activities reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a 
very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated several times as a judge for~ _______ ...., a Christian 
band competition in Colombia. 5 On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that she recently served as a 
juror forl 1-6 Here, the Petitioner's judging experience involves evaluating the work 
of up-and-coming bands and performers rather than nationally or internationally renowned artists. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that these occasions contribute to a finding that she has a career 
of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. She did not show, for example, 
how her experience in amateur competitions compares to others at the very top of the field. The 
Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the field based on her 
judging work. Moreover, serving as a juror does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. Cf, 
Matter o_f Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). 
Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent 
history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown 
that her judging experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner indicated her membership with the Society of Authors and Composers of Venezuela 
(SACVEN). However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this membership somehow garnered 
her sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. For instance, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that her membership resulted in widespread or significant 
attention. See 56 Fed. Reg at 30704. In addition, she did not establish how her membership with 
SACVEN reflects that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided evidence that she received a patent for her authored song,, .... I _ __. 
I t Although she indicated that other artists have sung her song, the Petitioner did not 
show that she garnered national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The 
record also contains recommendation letters commenting on her skills and abilities and confirming 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 The record indicates that the Petitioner also founde...__ ______ _. 
6 The record contains evidence showing that she possessed voting membership with the Latin Recording Academy of Arts 
and Sciences; however, she did not demonstrate that she actually voted in the Latin Grammy process. 
4 
her work with various artists, such as I I an~ I The letters, however, do 
not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall 
field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). While the letters highlight the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, they do not show how they rise to a level of sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized the field through extensive documentation. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The Petitioner did not establish that 
she has made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed 
work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Similar!~. the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her work atl I with other artists such as 
~ I and I and at venuessuch as I I I I Florida) and I I I I lco lombia ), resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, 
that sherew sigm'.1cant aftenhon from the greater field, or that the overall field considers her to be at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. While 
the Petitioner produced three concerts performed byl I atl I Stadium in Venezuela, 
the Petitioner did not establish that her roles or professional accomplishments caused her national or 
international acclaim or reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Finally, although she documented her income from 2014, the Petitioner did not establish that she 
commanded any earnings since then, demonstrating a level of compensation commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did 
not show that her wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, she did not demonstrate that she 
received notoriety or attention based on her earnings, separating herself from others in the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11971158 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dentist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dentist who at the time of filing was the Director of the.__ _____ ___. 
I I Research Center atl O !University I I in China, as well as the Deputy 
Director of thel I Department in the university's school and hospital of stomatology. He states 
that he intends to continue his education in the United States, as well as "increase the communication 
between Chinese and American dental! I research" and "farther develop th~ I 
industry in the U.S." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others and his 
authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets six additional 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director 
regarding the criteria relating to the Petitioner's judging and authorship activities, but find that he does 
not meet the initial evidence requirements of this classification. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As indicated in the plain language of this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence to show that he 
has received a prize or award, that the award was granted to acknowledge his excellence in the field 
of endeavor, and that the award is nationally or internally recognized. Here, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence pertaining to the following awards: 
• Silver MedalistJ I East China~I ----~---- ...... l Debate Competition 
(2017), Representative Team of School of Stomatology, I ]umvers1ty, 
2 
• Second Prize,~I ------~II pebate Competition (2018), 
School and Hospi y,I I Omvers1ty, 
• Third Prize, 2017 Science and Technology Awards, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, University 
• Third Prize 2018 Science and Technology Progress Awards,D Stomatological 
Hospital University 
• Copper Prize, The l~--------------~I Innovates the Achievement 
Exposition (2007) 
• Excellent Paper of Conference Award, 2007 Chinese ~------------~ Seminar 
Turning to the first element of this criterion, we note that the Petitioner was not an individual recirent 
of the first two awards listed. Articles in the record which were retrieved from the I web 
portal as well as what appears to be thd !website indicate that the Petitioner was the team leader 
for the university at the debate competitions, and photographs show him accepting the certificate along 
with the four other team members. However, neither of the debate competition certificates name him 
as a recipient. We therefore find that he did not receive these awards. 
Although the evidence relating to the science and technology awards also lists the recipients by 
institution name, the names of the individual research team members are also included, and therefore 
shows that those individuals were recognized by the awarding organization. In addition, the last two 
certificates specifically name the Petitioner as the only recipient. These awards can therefore be 
considered to have been received by him. 
As for the second element of this criterion, the evidence regarding the debate competitions indicates 
that the prizes were awarded based in large part upon debate skill rather than excellence in the field of 
dentistry. For instance, an article posted on the I I portal regarding the I t' 
competition describes the topics being debated, which involve the choice between two dental 
procedures, but in detailing the results provides comments about the debating skill and tactics of the 
teams, such as noting that one set of debaters "were agile, strong, and had strong thinking ability," 
while another debate was "full of witty words," and yet another participant sang a song for comedic 
effect. 
The evidence relating to the 20171 
0 !Science and Technology Award and the 20180 
Science and Technology Award is sufficient to show that they were awarded for excellence in the 
field, as they are based upon contributions already made by the teams and individuals. However, the 
record does not include information regarding the criteria used in awarding the last two awards listed, 
or any other evidence which would support a finding that they were awarded based upon excellence 
in dentistry. We note that the term "excellent" used for the seminar award is not sufficient, by itself: 
to meet this element of the criterion. 
Finally, looking at the third element of this criterion, the record does not include evidence that the 
research grant awards, which are the only two awards meeting both of the first two elements, are 
nationally or internationally recognized. The notification for the 201 7 Science and 
Technology Awards was posted on the website of the issuing organization, the,__ _ _, Medical 
Association, and the internet search results submitted by the Petitioner do not show that recognition 
3 
of these awards went beyond the provincial level. Similarly, the evidence of information about the 
2018 I I Science and Technology Progress A wards posted on a web portal is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that these awards received national or international recognition in the field of dentistry. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in the following associations: 
• Chinese Stomatological Association (CSA), Member of Fifth Special Committee for I 1(2015-18), Standing Member of Sixth Special Committee for.___ ___ ____.(2018-
21 
• Stomatolo ical Association I I, Standing Member of First Specialized Committee 
,....._ ____ ----., (2006-10), Vice Chairman of Second and Third Specialized Committees 
-----r--~ (2011-19), Standing Member of First Specialized Committee for I I 
Dentistry (2015-19), Executive Director of Fourth Council 
• Chinese Medical Association of Medical Information (CMAMI), Standing Member of Seventh 
Council (2015) 
• Chinese Medical Association (CMA), .... I __ _.I Branch, Member of Third Committee of ~ty for Stomatology 
• L__J Medical Association .... I _ ____.I, Stomatology Branch, Standing Member of Fourth 
Committee 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the CSA, he asserts on appeal that standing members of the 
committee "must have recognized important contributions" and "are all experts with outs~ndingl 
expertise," and refers to a letter submitted in response to the Director's RFE. That letter, fro 
I I the President of thee=] and President of the Schol-'-'--'....._.......,,.. ......... .......,---.; atl I states that there 
are 53 standing members of the Special Committee for and that they must have 
"recognized important contributions in the field of ora ~----~" ~--_.also writes that this 
membership must be voted unanimously by all association members, and that all standing members 
of the committee are "renowned professional experts in the field of Chinese orall ~" 
However, we note thatl I does not specify what contributions the Petitioner made that were 
considered sufficiently important to justify his selection as a standing member of the committee, nor 
does the record include a copy of the CSA's official rules regalding rembership. An article from 
what appears to from the website of the school of stomatology a notes that the members of the 
committee conducted a secret ballot to elect standing members and officers of the committee, 
including bothl land the Petitioner, but does not shed light upon the criteria employed by the 
members in casting their votes. Therefore the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the 
Petitioner's status as a standing member of one of the CSA's 34 committees meets this criterion. 
I I's letter also addresses the Petitioner's status as Vice Chairman (and after the filing of this 
petition, Chairman) of the c=J's Specialized Committee fo~ L He writes that all 
4 
members of this committee are "excellent researchers," and that the Petitioner was elected as Chairman 
due to his "excellent performance and achievements." Although he notes that the Petitioner 
successfully performed his duties as Vice Chairman of the committee,! I again does not 
identify any outstanding achievements that led r his ar,pointment as Vice Chairman and Chairman. 
In addition, the evidence includes a copy of the articles of association. Although the articles 
specify that senior officers of the association must "have great influence in the business field of the 
association," they do not include any requirements for leadership of the committees. In addition, the 
articles state that individual members must be engaged in stomatology and relevant professions. This 
evidence does not show that the0 requires outstanding achievements of its members, or applies a 
higher standard of membership including outstanding achievements for leaders of its committees. 
The last of the Petitioner's memberships that he addresses on appeal is his status as a member in the 
CMA. Although we agree that, per the articles of association, the payment of membership dues is not 
a condition for acceptance into the CMA, the articles do not otherwise show that outstanding 
achievements are required. Notably, ordinary members must hold one of several positions in the 
medical field, have graduated from a medical institution of higher education, and obtained a practicing 
license. As these requirements are the minimum for entering into a medical profession, they do not 
constitute outstanding achievements. 
Although the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision regarding his membership in the 
remaining associations on appeal, we have reviewed the evidence regarding those memberships and 
agree with the Director. The Petitioner has not established that his level of membership in any of these 
associations requires outstanding achievements, and we conclude that he therefore does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that material is about them, 
that it relates to their work in the field, and that it was published in one of the qualifying types of 
media. Here, the evidence submitted falls into several different categories. The first type to be 
considered is a screenshot of a video posted on I I which shows the Petitioner. The 
accompanying translation identifies the Petitioner and lists his credentials, and includes what would 
appear to be the first spoken sentence in the video in which he introduces himself However, although 
the video is described as an interview, a transcript of the video was not submitted, so the evidence 
does not indicate that the Petitioner was interviewed or, if he was interviewed, that the interview was 
about him and his work as a dentist. The evidence is therefore insufficient to show that this material 
is about the Petitioner and his work in the field of dentistry. In addition, while we acknowledge that 
the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the popularity of1 I as a platform, he has not 
demonstrated that every video posted on the platform, regardless of the person or organization that 
posted it, should be considered to have been published in a major medium. · 
Another type of material submitted by the Petitioner is what appear to be advertisements. One example 
is a copy of an article published in a newspaper called Health News which lists his achievements and 
5 
credentials and then includes his office address, telephone number and hours. Another example, 
published on the I lweb portal, is a lengthy interview and case summary for one of the 
Petitioner's patients. At the end of this material, it is stated that the editor is "propaganda team of 
stomatological hospital," and the address and other contact information for the hospital is provided. 
However, marketing materials created for the purpose of promoting a petitioner's services are not 
generally considered to be published material about the petitioner. 1 
The record also includes two newspaper articles including the same photograph, which the Petitioner 
asserts were published inl I Daily and I I F:vening News. However, neither of these 
newspaper clippings include identification of the publication, nor do they include the date of 
publication as required. Further, the Petitioner is not identified in the first article, and both 
accompanying articles are about the visit of a French technical advisor, not the Petitioner and his work. 
One article which is about the Petitioner and his work was published in I !Railway Newspaper 
.__ __ ~_.I 1998. But the Petitioner did not provide circulation information for this newspaper, and 
did not otherwise claim or establish that it is one of the qualifying types of media. 
Upon review of all of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the material 
specifically mentioned above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the original contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence that he is named as an inventor on nine utility patents granted 
by the Chinese National Intellectual Property Administration. In addition, he submitted certificates 
from several hospitals and medical device manufacturers regarding the production and use of devices 
based upon these patents. Specifically, certificates were initially submitted fronl I Union Hospital 
and the First Hospital of1 I stating that each of these institutions have used devices based on 
three of the Petitioner's patents. However, we note that all of these certificates use the exact same 
format, and all include nearly identical language despite coming from separate hospitals. Specifically, 
the last sentence of each certificate varies only slightly, suggesting that the language in the letters is 
not the authors' own. Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 
2006) (upholding an immigration judge's adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings 
based in part on the similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of Justice, 489 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when 
an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
This is also the case with additional certificates submitted in response to the Director's RFE. For 
example, the last sentence of the certificates froml I andl I Hospital 
regarding the production and use of a physiotherapy instrument are identical. Because these 
certificates are identical in format and share identical or nearly identical language, it is reasonable to 
infer that the Petitioner is the common source of this evidence, thus significantly reducing their 
evidentiary value. 
In addition, even if we were to consider the content of these certificates as entirely valid, they do not 
establish that the Petitioner has made a major contribution to the field of den~ Although they 
indicate that adoption of these devices has takf n plaf e in hosprals belond L___J most of these 
hospitals are in the same province ofl I as including Medical University, First 
Hospital of I I and I I Municipal Hospital. In addition, the certificates from the 
manufacturers indicate that they have been produced in what appear to be limited numbers, including 
200 units of the physiotherapy instrument and 700 units of al I. Although the 
producers assert that that thd I has been "applied in hundreds of domestic hospitals 
and clinics" and that an ice and heat compress mask has "sold quite well in hospitals and clinics 
nationwide," the evidence is insufficient to show that the apparently low number of units produced 
supports these assertions. Further, the record does not include evidence to support that this level of 
adoption by some hospitals in China demonstrates wide implementation throughout the field or a 
remarkable impact. 
We also note that the certificates do not indicate that the introduction and use of these devices has 
resulted in a significant contribution to dental care or the field of dentistry. Several of the certificates 
state that the use of these devices has "benefitted a lot of patients" and "can save operation time and 
improve efficiency," and they generally indicate satisfaction with the devices. However, while some 
of the certificates describe the construction and operation of the devices in detail, none specifically 
indicate the scope of their impact upon patient care. 
Reference letters submitted by the Petitioner also discuss his patents and their contributions to the 
field. For instance] I of the I ~ University School of Dentistry (Japan) 
describes the construction and operation of a 1" ( described as al I on the 
patent certificate) which the Petitioner helped to invent, and states that "th~ I efficiency 
is improved and the injuries to the patient is reduced." As with the statements provided in the 
certificates] Is description does not provide sufficient detail to demonstrate that this 
device has been a contribution of major significance to the field. 
The Petitioner also focuses in his appeal brief on the contribution he made to a cooperative research 
project with Australian researchers on the effects of hyperbaric oxygen onO tissue. He refers to 
two reference letters in support of the major impact of this research. I I of the I !University Institute of Stomatology states that this research "has released many valuable 
academic papers," but mentions only one paper co-authored by the Petitioner. I l also 
mentions this project and states that its contribution "can be showed by the scientific fee of more than 
CYN 500,000." However, he does not explain the correlation between the amount of funding granted 
7 
for this research and the significance its outcome has had on the field of dentistry, and neither letter 
provides detail concerning the project's results and subsequent impact. 
Although the Petitioner has shown that he has made original contributions to his field through his 
inventions and research, the evidence submitted and analyzed above does not establish that he those 
contributions have been of major significance. Therefore, he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall hierarchy of an organization 
and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact 
on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in this role should 
establish whether the role was critical for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has served as the Director of the ~------;=====1 I I Research Centerl I ofO since 2013, as well as Deputy Director ofthd~--~ 
Department in the School and Hospital of Stomatology. On appeal, the Petitioner hiThlights the letter 
froml l who is the President o-te=J's School of Stomatology.l j states that in the 
two roles held by the Petitioner, he "lead[ s] the clinical work and research of two departments." He 
also states that the Petitioner is "a well-known ex ert in in China" and among "China's 
first batch of doctors and researchers of ." In addition,! I writes that the 
Petitioner was appointed as the Director of the Teaching and Research Office, in 
which role he leads "the various levels of~-----~ and students' cultivation work" in the 
School of Stomatology. 
Although I I's letter provides little detail regarding the Petitioner's duties, it sufficiently 
indicates that he serves in a leading role for the! I as well as thel !Department. However, 
as noted by the Director in his decision, this reference letter and others in the record do not indicate 
where his position fits into the overall hierarchy ate=] or even within the School of Stomatology 
and Affiliated Stomatological Hospital. Evidence which appears to be from the I I website 
indicates that the hospital has 14 clinical departments and 7 administrative departments, and the 
evidence concerning the Petitioner's leadership of one or two of those departments is not sufficient 
to establish that it is leading or critical for the entire hospital. Further, the record does not include 
evidence which establishes thatl I or thel !Department by themselves have distinguished 
reputations. 
The website evidence also verifies statements in several of the reference letters that the Petitioner's 
employing hospital is the only specialized stomatological hospital i~ I province. Another page 
from the website states that the hospital's "research conditions have been improved," and that it "ranks 
high in Periodontology and I L" but it does not include a reference or further 
information about the ranking to support this latter statement. This evidence does not therefore 
establish that I l's School of Stomatology and Affiliated Stomatological Hospital have a 
distinguished reputation amongst similar hospitals in China or in the dentistry field overall. 
Per the above, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted tax documents for the years 2016 through 2018 
that show that he earned "income from salary and wages" of RMB 449,706 and RMB 616,628 in the 
first two years, respectively, and that his monthly "normal salary and wages" in 2018 totaled RMB 
542,606. In addition, he earned bonuses of RMB 11,000 in 2016 and RMB 108,000 in 2017 and 2018. 
For purposes of comparison to the salary of others in his field, the Petitioner submitted a salary survey 
from the website www.kanzhun.com. This material indicates that the position surveyed is dentist, that 
it the figures are based upon "124 items of salary," and that the average salary of RMB 5949 is 
expressed in pre-tax yuan per month. However, average salary information for those performing work 
in a related but distinct occupation with different responsibilities is not a proper basis for 
comparison. Rather, the petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in 
his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA 
Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, although he 
works in the field of dentistry, the Petitioner's position as a department head withc=Js dentistry 
school and hospital is not comparable to that of a dentist. The partial list of positions, locations and 
salaries included with the submitted salary survey evidence verifies that the salaries included in the 
survey are dentists, and there is no indication that these positions share the same duties or level of 
responsibility as the Petitioner's position. 
In addition, based upon the partial list referenced above, these positions are located throughout China, 
and therefore do ndt provi1e an accurate basis for comparison to the Petitioner's salary, which is based 
upon conditions i The evidence includes a note to this effect, stating that "[S]alary level is 
affected by many factors, such as region, working years, and etc. For reference only." 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that his salary is high in relation to 
comparable positions within his geographical area, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
9 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12637549 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 See In Re: 6619081 (May 1, 2020). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received 
a major, internationally recognized award and that she satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), of 
which she must meet at least three. In dismissing her appeal, we also determined that the Petitioner 
did not fulfill the one-time achievement and did not establish eligibility for any additional criteria. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming 
that he~ !World Championships qualify as one-time 
achievements. In our prior decision, we specifically addressed her arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish eligibility of I I World 
Championships as major, internationally recognized awards. On motion, the Petitioner did not explain 
or demonstrate how we erred or incorrectly applied law or policy. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that she meets the "three-out-ten-rule" because she satisfied the 
membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and generally references claims and material that 
we previously evaluated. Again, the Petitioner does not specifically point to how we improperly 
applied law or policy rather than generally alleging error. Our decision detailed why the Petitioner 
did not sufficient!] document how her memberships with thel I Hall of Fame and the I I I world Clampiorhip Cluh I . ,I fulfilled the membership criteriou. 
Specifically, as it relates to the Petitioner made assertions and assumptions that were not 
supported in her documentation, and she did not establish I ts membership requirements. 
Regarding .__ ____ ___. we explained how automatic membership, without being judged by 
recognized national or international experts, does not meet the regulatory requirements for the 
membership criterion. 
The Petitioner does not address any of these issues on motion, nor did she demonstrate how we 
incorrectly or improperly adjudicated her appeal. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing 
that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is 
not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) 
(finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the 
same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
2 
As she did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal, the Petitioner did not establish 
that she meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny her motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal based on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10468354 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vice president and chief content officer of a media company, seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Before 2016, the Petitioner was co-founder and editor-in-chief ofL_ _______ ---r--1----___J 
Since 2016, the Petitioner has served as a vice president and chief content officer of.__ _ _. an online 
provider of business news and information. She intends to work as I I U.S. representative in the 
United States, where her role would be to "develop the media business, build a professional content team 
and manage the daily operation ofC:=l's subsidiary in the U.S." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to participation 
as a judge of the work of others and a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. 
Upon review, we have determined that the Petitioner satisfies a third criterion, relating to high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration. In the denial notice, the Director stated that pay statements 
show salary payments that are substantially lower than the salary claimed elsewhere in the record. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director misread a municipal tax document, and mistook tax paid by 
the Petitioner for salary paid to her. The record supports this assertion. The Petitioner has established 
that she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in her field. 
2 
Rather than further discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts that her work witlC7in the United States "would satisfy the national interest 
standard," and that she has submitted "at least three types of initial evidence as an alien of exceptional 
ability under section 203(b)(2) of the Act." These and other assertions relate to a different immigrant 
classification. In this proceeding, the Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, not as an alien of exceptional ability, with a national interest 
waiver of the job offer requirement, under section 203(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Act. 
The Petitioner asserts that "chief content officer" is a "relatively new title," and therefore relatively 
little evidence exists that would permit a direct comparison between her and others in similar positions. 
Nevertheless, the statutory and regulatory requirements are inherently comparative, demanding 
evidence to show that the Petitioner is at the top of her field relative to others in that field. In this 
case, the Petitioner's evidence satisfies the facial requirements of three regulatory criteria, but upon 
examination, that evidence does not show that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or 
international acclaim and stands at the very top of her field. 
The Petitioner holds a high-ranking position at a media company that has attracted attention in the 
field. For this reason, the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. Such a role, however, is not intrinsically tantamount 
to sustained national or international acclaim. The reputation of a given organization does not 
automatically or presumptively demonstrate acclaim for its high-ranking officers. 
The Petitioner emphasizes published materials in the record which name her as a top official o±i._ _ ___. 
The record, however, does not establish the significance of this coverage. Many of the submitted articles 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
lack an author credit, and appear to be promotional in nature rather than reflecting acclaim from outside 
the organization. 
The Petitioner has established that she is successful in her field, but the evidence submitted does not 
meet the much higher threshold of establishing sustained national or international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that her career is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13020667 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering specialist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had received a major, international recognized award or satisfied at least 
three of ten alternative evidentiary criteria, as required. After a series of appeals and motions ( detailed 
below), the matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot 
use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
In order to provide context, we discuss, here, the procedural history of this matter. 
2 
July 2017 The Petitioner filed the petition. 
August 2018 The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not established 
eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to us at the Administrative Appeals 
Office (AAO), and stated that he would submit a brief and additional evidence within 
30 days. The record does not show, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he 
submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), 
which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the Petitioner 
addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We denied the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(I). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations make no provision for a petitioner to 
appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking both to 
explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new evidence in 
support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 2019 
motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we also determined that 
the Petitioner had not overcome the summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's latest motion includes several documents, but all of them are copies of materials that 
he had submitted previously. None of them are new to the record, and therefore they do not introduce 
new facts. Furthermore, most of the submitted documents relate to events in 2018 and 2019, after the 
petition's July 2017 filing date. As such, they cannot establish eligibility at the time of filing, as 
3 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(2). See also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 
49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971) (new facts cannot retroactively establish eligibility).1 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not shown cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must show that our most recent prior 
decision (issued July 2020, relating to the Petitioner's November 2019 motion) contained errors of 
fact, law, or policy that affected the outcome of that decision. 2 In that decision, we made the following 
determinations: 
• We granted the motion to reopen in part, because the Petitioner had adequately explained the 
delay in filing the January 2019 motion; 
• The only issue properly under consideration in the January 2019 motion was the summary 
dismissal, not the August 2018 denial or the merits of the underlying petition; 
• The Petitioner did not show that we erred in summarily dismissing the original appeal; and 
• The regulations make no provision to excuse the late filing of a motion to reconsider. 
In the present motion, proper consideration is limited to these issues. 
The Petitioner states, on motion: 
AAO erred by summarily dismissing the appeal and failed to consider petitioner's brief 
with newly submitted evidence. The AAO should not have summarily dismissed his 
appeal and overlooked the additional evidence previously submitted attached to 
beneficiary's motion. 
Petitioner identified an error in the director's decision summarily dismissing 
petitioner's appeal without considering the evidence attached to the motion and new 
statement of facts and new evidence in support of his motion. 
Petitioner asserts that AAO erred in summarily dismissing the appeal since the 
petitioner provided numerous explanations in the form of motion and supplemental 
brief: affidavit and newly submitted evidences and basis for his appeal and additional 
evidence when the appeal was filed. 
1 To avoid conveying the false impression that these materials would have otherwise established eligibility, we briefly note 
that the submitted materials relate to the Petitioner's employment at an elder care facility and a student project involving 
the construction of an impact attenuator for a race car. On its face, this evidence does not establish or suggest that the 
Petitioner is eligible for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
4 
The above statement alleges error in the December 2018 summary dismissal, but only by ignoring the 
chronology and conflating the appeal (filed in September 2018) with a subsequent motion (filed in 
January 2019), repeatedly referring to the motion as though it were an integral part of the appeal. 
When we reviewed the appeal in December 2018, the Petitioner had not yet filed the motion, and had 
not yet submitted any brief or evidence in support of that motion. The motion was the Petitioner's 
response to the December 2018 summary dismissal. The appeal that was before us in December 2018 
did not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. 
In a new brief: the Petitioner cites various examples of case law concerning the limited scope of 
motions to reconsider. For example, he cites Matter o_f Medrano, 20 I&N Dec. 216,219 (BIA 1990, 
1991 ), which he paraphrases as follows: "A motion to reconsider should not be used to raise a legal 
argument that could have been raised earlier in the proceedings." This case law undermines, rather 
than supports, his argument on motion. The time to allege specific errors in the Director's denial 
decision was in the appeal filed in September 2018. At that time, the Petitioner filed only a skeletal 
appeal. He stated that more details would follow within 30 days, but he did not supplement the appeal 
during that time. The filing of the appeal afforded the Petitioner a time-limited opportunity to raise 
specific objections to the denial. It did not create or preserve any right for the Petitioner to dispute the 
denial in a motion that would be filed months later. 
The Petitioner filed a timely appeal in September 2018, but he did not, at that time, identify any 
specific grounds for the appeal. Instead, he made the general statement that the denial contained 
unspecified errors which the Petitioner would address in a brief, to follow within 30 days. The record 
does not contain any timely supplemental brief from the Petitioner, and the Petitioner does not claim 
to have submitted one. The Petitioner's January 2019 motion could not, and did not, cure the 
deficiencies in his September 2018 appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not overcome the summary dismissal of his appeal, we will not address the 
merits of the petition in great detail. Nevertheless, in an effort to inform the Petitioner that the above­
described technical and procedural issues are not the only obstacles to approval of the petition, we will 
discuss certain elements of the record. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires "evidence that the alien has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise." 
The same regulation provides that such evidence may take the form of "a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major international[ly] recognized award)." In the initial denial notice, the Director observed that 
the relevant legislative history named the Nobel Prize as an example of such an award. See H.R. Rep. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The 
Director also noted that the awarding of the Nobel Prize routinely attracts international attention. 
The Petitioner claims to have received such an award, in the form of a "Certificate of Recognition" 
"[?or being an outstanding individual" at the .__ ____________ ___.2016" event held 
by ~-I The Petitioner also claims to have "received ... international recognition for his 
contribution as Tech Specialist from~------~' We agree with the Director's conclusion 
that these accolades do not rise to the level of major, internationally recognized prizes or awards, on a 
par with the Nobel Prize. 
5 
One of the lesser regulatory criteria, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), calls for evidence of the alien's 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner states that he satisfies this criterion through customer reviews posted online on the 
website of a company that repairs ventilation and electrical systems. These reviews do not conform to 
any of the elements required by the regulation. The Petitioner is not the author of the reviews; the reviews 
are not scholarly articles; and the website is not a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. The Director correctly determined that these customer reviews do not establish the Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Petitioner seeks permanent immigration benefits in a classification that, by law, is reserved for 
individuals who have earned sustained national or international acclaim at the top of their fields. The 
caliber of evidence submitted to support the petition does not rise close to this highly rarefied level of 
achievement and recognition. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The latest motion does not establish that our most recent decision was in error, and seeks to reach back 
to earlier stages of the proceeding that are no longer ripe for review on motion. The Petitioner has not 
overcome our determination that summary dismissal was the proper, and required, outcome when 
presented with an appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11244076 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief technology officer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he has served as the chief technology officer for I , , I I since 2016. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for four criteria. After reviewing 
all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of 
at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 1 The Petitioner provided articles posted on cbsnews.com (2), cnn.com, 
washingtonpost.com, axios.com, fortune.com, forbes.com (2), sfchronicle.com, reuters.com, ft.com, 
bloomberg.com, wired.com, wsj.com, ttnews.com (3), thedrive.com, freightwaves .com (2), 
businessinsider.com, mashable.com, and autonews.com. However, none of the articles reflect 
published material about the Petitioner. Rather, the articles show published material aboutl I 
In fact, 14 articles never mention the Petitioner, 7 articles briefly indicate his name as being a co­
founder 0£1 .... __ I as background information about the company, and 2 articles briefly quote the 
Petitioner regardinO technology andl I trucks. Articles that are not about an alien do 
not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 
(D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the articles represent published material about him 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion based on his "patented inventions, rave reviews 
about his work, and letters from leading experts." The record contains evidence of two recently 
approved patents listing the Petitioner as one of the inventors. In general, a patent recognizes the 
originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. As discussed further below, although the Petitioner expresses optimism and 
others opine that technology using his patents shows promise, he did not demonstrate how the patents 
already qualify as contributions of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of his patents has yet to be determined. 
Further, the Petitioner references articles that reported on I . I and its continuous testing of 
,__ ___ ___.I driving. For example, a 2019 article posted on forbes.com reported onl I being "the 
first company to test an on a stretch of U.S. highway -and it so be combining 
an I J system with al I operator standing by to I I the vehicle when 
necessary." Another 2019 article posted on autonews.com indicated that "thel I test was a 
one-off event, not a permanent switch .me==]s overall testing procedure," "it represents the first 
step in a grcdual proce~s in which suchc==] test will increase in frequency as the company eyes 
the start of1~_ ---~I commercial operations in the second half of 2020," and "[ e ]fforts such as 
I , Is last week are a step along the route to making I !trucking a reality." The samples 
indicated here, as well as the evidence discussed under the published material criterion, relate to I l's developing and current testing o~ !vehicles. The documentation, however, does 
not demonstrate that the Petitioner's patents have already significantly impacted the field in a major 
way. The record, for example, does not reflect that his patents resulted in widespread usage or 
influenced in a majorly, significant manner. Instead, the record shows the effect of his patents in 
limited means at the testing stage of a long process withl specu~rive reference about futuristic 
applicability. In fact, the Petitioner's brief states that"[ w ]hile s trucks will be able to navigate I I on highways, they willbej jwhen they exit highways," and "[t]his will transform 
the trucking industry by allowing truck drivers [to] enjoy a sedentary life." (emphasis added). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters discussing his role in developing technology 
atl I. For instance, "[the Petitioner] architected the system from the beginning and used his skills 
to lead his engineering team through different phases of development" I I; and 
j I' unique approach is a combination of practical technology development and a deep 
understanding of the underlying economic and technological forces directing the US trucking market," 
and " the Petitioner's] efforts enable~ ~ to farther develop their important technology" 
~----~· Here, the letters credit the Petitioner with developing technology atl I without 
showing how his contributions are viewed in the overall field as being majorly significant. 3 
In addition, the letters speculate on the possibility and potential of the technology at some 
undetermined time. For example, "the I I aspects ofj Is system could be deployed 
tol I transportation systems," "provides a roadmap of how the trucking industry can apply I I systems," and "[t]hese technologies have certainly caused a shift in how the 
trucking indust[ will operate in the future, but they also have the potential to revolutionize a wide 
range of field" b. ( emphasis added). Although the letters opine on the possibility of 
the influence of the technology at some time in the future, they do not demonstrate how his patents 
and work a~ lhave already impacted, influenced, or affected the field in a majorly significant 
manner beyond the company. 
The letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining how his contributions have been 
majorly significant in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are 
of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that I I invited him to speak at a conference discussing the 
future of the trucking industry." Besides submitting screenshots froml ~ confirming his 
speaking engagement, the Petitioner did not establish that his conference presentation resulted in an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to published material and 
original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, 
relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 6 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the record contains promising work of Starsky, the Petitioner did not establish that he is 
among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 11198684 
 Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i)the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through
extensive documentation,
(ii)the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of
extraordinary ability, and
(iii)the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively
the United States.
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a professor in the department of mechanical engineering at 
the Universit~ !Nigeria since 2013. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical 
role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that he fulfills the judging 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), discussed further below. 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, 
we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner earned a bachelor's of science degree in mechanical engineering 
froml 11 Jniversityl . 0 , I in 1997 and a doctor of philosophy from the University of I I in 2004. 4 As indicated above, the Petitioner has been employed as a professor 
at the University! I since 2013 and worked there as an associate professor from 2009 -2013. 
Previously, the Petitioner served as a senior lecturer atl I University (2008 -2009) 
and research fellow at the University I I (2006 -2007) and at the University of I I (2004 -2005). The Petitioner judged others, authored scholarly articles, and performed in 
leading or critical roles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his personal and professional 
achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated in evaluating theses for postgraduate candidates and students 
for the University! 16 However, the Petitioner's judging experience involves 
evaluating the work of students and aspiring professionals rather than established, recognized 
professionals. Cf, Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Commr. 1994) (USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). Further, he did not establish that these instances place him among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner indicated on his resume that he has completed 34 credits for a master of science degree. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from Frontiers in Energy confirming that he reviewed a paper in~I --~ 
2019, after he filed his initial petition. In addition, he provides letters from two other journals (Energy and Power 
Engineering and Experimental in Fluids) generally indicating that he has judged papers for publication. but they do not 
state any dates that he performed his evaluations. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he judged journal papers at the time he filed his petition. Further. 
while he presented letter requests for him evaluate staff for promotions, the Petitioner did not show that he actually 
completed the requests. 
3 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). He did not show, for example, how 
his experience in judging postgraduate candidates compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his instances of judging contribute to a finding that 
he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his work judging 
postgraduate students, limited to the university level. Moreover, serving on a thesis examination board 
does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others 
in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, 
acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 7 Although 
he submitted 25 authored articles, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did not submit evidence showing the 
significance of his authorships or how his overall publications compare to others who are viewed to 
be at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for articles authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other mechanical 
engineers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage 
is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided evidence 
reflecting that his published material has been cited almost 650 times, with his two highest cited 
articles receiving almost 150 citations. While the citation of his work shows that some in his field 
have referenced it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a 
level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his work 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to his roles, the Petitioner served as director of special duties for the vice-chancellor at 
the University! I as well as a member on several committees and chairman at the International 
Conference of Mechanical Engineering, Energy Technology, and Management. However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received any national or international attention from his 
positions beyond the university or conference. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. The Petitioner did not show that his roles at the university and conference distinguished 
7 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
him, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his professional 
teaching career spanning approximately 12 years represents a career of acclaimed work and sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The 
record does not reflect that any of his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner presented evidence reflecting that he received the.__ ________ __, Award for 
an outstandin~ lat the International Conference on Fluid Mechanics in 2003. While 
the conference acknowledged the Petitioner's poster, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
garnered national or international acclaim based on his receipt of the conference award, or that it 
represents an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided evidence of his membership with the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers and the Nigerian Society of Engineers. The petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate that his memberships with these societies are somehow remarkable or garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, the Petitioner did 
not submit evidence showing that his memberships resulted in widespread or significant attention. See 
56 Fed. Reg at 30704. In addition, he did not establish the prestigious nature of membership with 
these societies, or how his memberships reflect that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that summarized his written work and indicate 
publication in journals without demonstrating that his contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. Instead, the letters speculate on the potential influence and on the possibility of being 
majorly significant at some point in the future. For instance, "[t]he findings reported in his works on 
.__ _____ _. can be applied in enhancingl I desi n" and " t his has great potentials for 
significant improvements inl I efficiency" "the novel findin s 
reported in [ the Petitioner's] thesis have many potential industrial applicl"-'-" ................... --,r-------,,.---....,...----i, I ~' "[t]his will be of great industrial benefits for of for enhanced 
flexibility and significant reduction of~------~" '------,------------' 
"[t]he findings reported in [the Petitioner's] Doctoral thesis o ~----~ 
applications inl I" I ~-
The letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include 
corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that he has made impactful or influential 
contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the 
5 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The letters describe his work without showing how they rise to a level of major significance 
in the field and represent an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10856895 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who works through the medium of oil painting, and has worked in the past 
as a professor teaching design courses. She earned a Master of Arts degree in 1996 froml I 
University, and has published textbooks on display and lighting design. She states that she intends to 
open an art studio in the United States and continue to create and exhibit her paintings. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions and her 
authorship of scholarly articles in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four 
additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director's findings regarding the display and authorship criteria, but also conclude that the evidence 
of her work as a judge for the I I Design A ward is sufficient to meet the requirements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Therefore, because she has met the initial evidence 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, we will not analyze her claims 
to any additional criteria, but will consider the entirety of the record in a final merits analysis below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
1 We note that the Petitioner submitted new evidence along with its brief on appeal. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
2 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner's career in the arts includes painting and exhibiting her oil 
paintings as an artist, as well as teaching and writing about display design as an associate professor. 
Because she has indicated that she intends to focus on her painting in the United States, we will first 
consider the evidence pertaining to her career as an artist. 
We initially note that much of the evidence pertaining to the Petitioner's activity as an artist is in the 
form of articles that were posted on websites or web portals such as sina.com, sohu.com, and 
ifeng.com. In support of her assertion that these should be considered to be professional media or 
other major media, and thus show that the posting of these articles reflects recognition she gained 
through the exhibitions of her work and awards she received, the Petitioner submitted reports showing 
statistics for these websites, including the number of visitors and rankings. For each set of evidence, 
the Petitioner refers to these rankings and asserts that they show that the website "and its subdomains" 
are major media. However, we will not assume that statistics for an entire web portal such as these 
apply to each of that portal's "channels," let alone every article posted within that portal. 
In addressing the final merits determination on appeal, the Petitioner initially refers to the evidence of 
her receipt of awards for her paintinr. The record shows that the first of two awards she received in 
2018 was the I Award" at the I I Summer Exhibition in 2018. 
Evidence from the host venue,I I Art Museum, as well as articles posted on artron.net and 
sohu.net, verifies that out of the 280 artists who participated in the exhibition, a total of 30 received 
the same award as the Petitioner, and that two artists out of that group received an "annual award." 
The evidence therefore shows that the Petitioner did not receive the top prize from this exhibition, and 
that approximately one out of every nine artists who participated received the same award as she. In 
addition, while the Petitioner submitted evidence from the art museum's website which included a list 
of other exhibitions it has held since 2016, including th0 edition of the I O J Summer Exhibition 
held in 2017, this evidence does not demonstrate that it or the exhibition are prestigious or well-known 
such that this award was nationally or internationally recognized and brought acclaim of that scope to 
the Petitioner. Further, given the number of prizes awarded at the same level as the Petitioner's, this 
evidence does not demonstrate her place as one of the small percentage of artists at the top of her field. 
The Petitioner also submitted additional articles about the 20181 !summer Exhibition 
which were posted on the websites mentioned above, as well as sina.com. We note that one of the 
articles, initially posted on sohu.com, was later posted without change on two other websites, although 
different sources and editors are listed. This article described the opening ceremony and speeches, 
lists the names of the awarded artists, and indicates that more than 100 people attended the opening 
ceremony. However, as noted above, the posting of these articles on popular web portals is not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner garnered national or international acclaim from this award, 
as the evidence regarding viewership or traffic is much too broad to provide information regarding the 
viewership of these individual articles. Further, the fact that the same words and pictures were used 
in each article does not reflect widespread interest in the exhibition, awards or artists, as the opinion 
of only a single source is provided. 
3 
The second award highlighted by the Petitioner was her designation as 1 I Artist" by the 
.__ ______________ _.!Education Organization Committee, also in 2018. An article 
from artron.net explains that the ten recipients of this award were selected by several rounds of online 
public voting, but the basis or criteria of this voting is not explained here or elsewhere in the record. 
It also indicates that as one of the top three vote-getters, the Petitioner signed a contract with a 
multimedia company through which she "will enjoy the global promotion of l _::J 
for half a year." In addition, the work of all ten recipients were displayed in an exhibition at theLJ I I Expo. However, a program from this expo shows that one of the Petitioner's works 
was included among that of many artists. Notably, hers was one of six works pictured on pageD of 
the Togrm, as part of a section titled "Original Artwork Display and Trading Area" which began on 
page of the program. Further, the program does not mention her selection as a l I 
Artist." Although the artron.net article shows that there was a ceremony for the ten winning artists in 
this competition, which included the signing of contracts by the three top winners, the evidence 
indicates that it was just one part of a much larger industry event. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence showing that she received a "Nomination Award" for her entry 
for the design of the l l Award" trophy in 2000. An article in Beijing 
Youth Daily indicates that hers was 1 of 4 design proposals selected out of30 submissions, and invites 
readers to submit votes. A later article published in the same periodical announces that another design 
was selected for the trophy after 500 votes were received and a panel of expert judges conferred. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence that the circulation of Beijing Youth Daily was about 
600,000 in 2004, suggesting that this contest and her status as a finalist brought her acclaim in the 
field, the relatively small number of submissions and votes received for this competition does not 
reflect widespread interest in either the Petitioner's design or her finalist status in the competition, or 
acclaim from either the general public or other artists. 
Regarding the public display of her artwork, in addition to the two group exhibitions described above, 
the evidence shows that the Petitioner's paintings were also displayed at other venues, in both group 
and solo exhibitions. These include solo exhibitions at thd I art center ( also referred to 
as the.....,.,=========r-----'Art Place") that took place from I DO 18, 
and thel IArt Space from I l 2018. As with the 20181 I 
Summer Exhibition, the evidence related to this first exhibition consists of two articles, one of which 
was posted on three different websites/web portals and appears to be attributed to the same individual 
or group. In addition, we note that several individuals are repeatedly named as participants or in other 
roles associated with these exhibitions. For example.__ _____ __,is named as the owner o~ I I I Art Space, but is also pictured and identified as a speaker at the I I exhibit 
and th~ I Summer Exhibition. The record does not include evidence which demonstrates that 
either of these solo exhibitions attracted other than local interest or garnered acclaim for the Petitioner 
and her work outside of her group of acquaintances and colleagues. Similarly, although a solo exhibit 
of her work d I Germany in 2015 might suggest broader acclaim for the Petitioner, the record 
shows that that exhibit also received only local attention from a German newspaper. 
Beyond art exhibitions in galleries and shows, the Petitioner's work was also displayed in printed 
publications. This includes four of her works pictured on two pages, along with a briefbiogra~ 
theC]2010 edition of Art Observation, which the evidence indicates is sponsored by theL__J 
Academy of Art. Although only partially translated, this evidence shows that the journal also 
4 
presented the works of other artists as well as art news and reviews. A similar article appeared in 
China Financial Culture inl 12019, but also includes critiques of the Petitioner's work from 
five artists, art professors and critics. Another article] described as a "theme essay" submitted by a 
reader and published in the D 2018 edition of the I magazine Community, describes the 
Petitioner's work and includes photographs of two of her paintings. However, the evidence regarding 
these publications does not show that they have a significant level of circulation or visibility, in the art 
field or the general public. Statistics froml I also known as the I I 
database, show that both Art Observation and Community appear to have limited annual circulation, 
and other metrics for the former publication do not compare fa~rably f° those provided in the record 
for another publication, Art & Design. Also, no information fro was provided regarding China 
Financial Culture, and the websites from which information about this magazine were provided do 
not appear to be linked to the magazine or the publisher. Although these materials contain favorable 
critiques of the Petitioner's work, the evidence does not show that they were widely read or distributed 
in the art world or in the general public, and thus are not indicative of acclaim at the national or 
international level. 
In addition to the media items discussed above which reported on exhibitions of her work or displayed 
or critiqued her work, the Petitioner also submitted two interviews of her in which she discusses her 
art and inspirations, both of which were posted to websites in early 2019. One of these interviews was 
conducted by the previously-mentioned! I and posted on sohu.com, while the other was 
posted on artron.net and attributed tol !Art Network Special Report." As we initially stated, we 
will not consider the evidence regarding the popularity of web portals such as sohu.com to reflect upon 
every material published within its channels or subdomains. Certainly the fact that interviews of her 
were conducted and published reflects some interest in her and her paintings, but the Petitioner has 
not provided sufficient evidence to show that these interviews were widely read and thus garnered 
acclaim for the Petitioner at the national or international level. 
The record also includes reference letters from artists and others in the art world who provide their 
thoulhts on the contributions the Petitioner has made to the field. 2 I l an artist and Chairman 
of th_ I indicates that he met the Petitioner in May 2018, and was 
immediately attracted to and impressed by her painting. He describes some of her works, and states 
that she "has completely formed her own unique style of painting," and that her "innovations have 
been a priceless contribution to the art society ... "I I describes the Petitioner's paintings 
as "innovative and different from others," and notes that some have been published in magazines and 
exhibited at the 20181 ~xpo. Others also use the term "innovative" when describing 
her work, and similarly reference the articles on the websites and in the magazines discussed above. 
However, as we noted in our analysis of those articles, they do not show that the Petitioner has received 
sustained and widespread acclaim for her work. We farther note that most of the letter writers state 
that they personally know the Petitioner or have a connection wit~ !University, which she 
also attended, and thus do not indicate that any innovations she has made have been widely acclaimed. 
Also, although the statements in these letters describe her work as innovative, they do not indicate that 
others in the field have adopted elements of or been inspired by the Petitioner's work in creating their 
own art. 
2 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
While the Petitioner did not claim the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), she did submit evidence 
of the commercialization of some of her work. A letter from an interior designer indicates that he and 
his colleagues "introduce[d] [the Petitioner] and her works to many of our high-end clients," and 
mentions two specific hotels to which her work was recommended. In addition to not explicitly 
indicating that the Petitioner's paintings were purchased for public display by these clients, these 
statements are not supported by documentary evidence such as contracts or sales receipts. Additional 
evidence regarding sales of her work include a contract with a silk production company planning to 
use the image of her work in their products, and an agreement regarding the auctioning of two of the 
Petitioner's paintings. However, the record does not include evidence confirming the sale of these 
items and the compensation received by the Petitioner. Therefore, this evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that her work as an artist has been successfully commercialized to the extent that 
demonstrates acclaim in the field of art at the national or international level. 
We note although the Petitioner's paintings were included in Art Observation in 2010, the majority of 
the evidence regarding her work as an artist comes from the two years immediately preceding the 
filing of her petition. Even if we were to find that she has garnered national or international acclaim 
for her paintings, which per the above discussion we do not, we would not find that that acclaim 
occurred over a sustained period as required. 
Turning to the academic and design aspect of the Petitioner's career, the record shows that she 
authored textbooks in the area of display and lighting desi n which was sufficient to satisf the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). These,....;i:.:.:n;.::.;cl:..::u:.:::d.::..e....._ ________ ---r-____ ---; 
two editions of (2007 and 2011 ), an_-.__ ____ __. 
A letter from the publisher of.__ ____ __, states that 5900 copies of the book were printed and 
that they "sold well and received very well accolades [sic] by teachers and students in professional art ~-" Additional evidence indicates that it was one of nine textbooks listed for a course taught at 
L___JUniversity, and was available at several libraries in China. 
A similar letter from China Youth Press states that the 2011 edition ofl I was printed 
seven times for a total of 16,000 copies, and "has been widely used by related majors in more than 30 
colleges and universities in various regions of the company." In addition, a letter dated July 2010 
from China Youth Press, presumably referring to the 2007 edition of this book, states that it is a 
national-level planning textbook for general higher education and the 
~en_v_i_ro_n_m-en_t_a_l_a_rt_d_e_s~ign textbook o±1 I" As withl I 
evidence was submitted showing that it is available in several libraries in China, as well as at least one 
inl I but there was no direct evidence of its use as a textbook by universities other than I O !University. In addition, although a notice from the Chinese Ministry of Education regarding 
the topics and selection of textbooks for the~--------~ was submitted, it only describes 
the process for review and publication of textbooks, and does not indicate any special status afforded 
to selected textbooks. 
Some of the reference letters previously mentioned make reference to the Petitioner's work as a teacher 
and author, but do not offer specific additional information regarding this activity beyond the evidence 
discussed above. While that evidence indicates that the Petitioner had some degree of success as an 
author of textbooks in the design field, it is not sufficient to demonstrate that this success placed her 
in the small percentage of teachers at the top of the art and design field. 
6 
As stated in our brief review of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we find that the 
Petitioner's appointment as a judge for thd I Creative Works A ward in 2018 was sufficient 
to demonstrate that she served as a judge of the work of others in her field, specifically other designers. 
The evidence shows that she served on a panel that judged ten entries which included paper tube 
furniture buildin block to s, a zodiac calendar, and a storage box, and that this event was a part of 
~---------__.Week and held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the I I 
~-~ Chamber of Commerce. 
However, while her solicitation for participation in this event demonstrates recognition of the 
Petitioner's status as an expert in the field of design through her work as a teacher and textbook author, 
the evidence does not establish that this was an honor indicative of national or international acclaim 
in the field, especially considering her focus in the areas ofl landl !design. Althou~h the
1 Petitioner did conduct review in her field in this role, we note that the articles submitted about th I I Awards stress its focus on the I I and I I industries. For instance, the 
I I 2018 article posted to sina.com states that the aim is to recognize "the quality of human 
settlements and urban construction and encouraging the industry to continue to innovate." In 
describing the review process, it notes that the jldging c1mmittee includes "manyl I industry 
scholars, senior experts inl !building and housing, executives of brand development 
companies, senior executives of well-known consultants, and experts in brand building in thO I I industry." Another article posted to xinhua.net notes that the award ceremony included a round 
table discussion with executives from I ponstruction companies, development companies, 
Internet companies, andl I innovation companies," and that the Chairman of thel I 
Award Committee spoke about the need for transformation in the construction industry. Further, 
another article on xinhua.net which focused on the specific creative works award for which the 
Petitioner served as a reviewer acknowledges that the reviewers included artists, but notes that most 
of the designers participating have a background in architecture. This evidence does not show that the 
Petitioner garnered recognition in the design field through her participation as a jidge in trs e~ 
that her selection as a reviewer reflects a standing as one of the small percentage o andl______J 
designers at the top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work as an artist and designer is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12685089 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief executive officer (CEO), seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner serves as the CEO for I ~, "which is al I that 
empowers retail and service employees! I I !'1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one criterion, leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six 
additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
Petitioner claims that he "has been the recipient of significant venture capital funding" froml I 
I 1,1 !, and I I However, the Petitioner did 
not establish that he actually received the venture capital funding. 
The record contains a letter frortj I, managing partner a~ l who stated that "[ w ]e only 
invest in B2B software companies" and "[ o ]ur network is particularly valuable to the B2B companies in 
which we invest." In addition, the record includes a letter froml I managing director at I I who indicated that "[the Petitioner's] organization has received an award of venture capital 
1 See page 3 of the Petitioner's initial cover letter. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
fro Lr----------" "[the Petitioner] was instrumental inC]s receipt of venture capital 
.__ ___ ----.-__ ,__ _ _.," and "[the Petitioner's] excellence as a technology entrepreneur is a 
primary reason fo s recei t of venture capital from~--.=====.--___.•" Further, the record 
reflects a letter fro.i.._ __ ~---------' managing director atl I who stated that l I 
provides mentorship-driven seed-stage investment services for technology-oriented companies" and 
I I is extremely competitive, with only 9 companies selected (includingLJ out of over 1,000 
applications." The Petitioner also offered evidence of financial documentation showing□' s receipt 
of the venture capital froml 1,1 I, and I I The description of this type of evidence in 
the regulation provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or pri;es, a1 opposed 
to his or her employer's receipt of the awa1 ds or rrizes. 3 Although the evidence shows tha received 
the funding froml~_~l I I and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received the 
venture capital funding consistent with this regulatory criterion. 4 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that receiving venture capital funding qualifies as a prize or 
award. The Petitioner provides archived screenshots from uscis.gov entitled, "Understanding the EB-1 
Requirements for Extraordinary Ability," stating under the awards criterion:5 
Note: If you have received venture capital funding or have been awarded a grant, you 
may submit evidence of the funding or grant awarded, including the amount of the funding 
or grant criteria used in awarding the funding or grant. Evidence of other investments, 
such as those from an accredited angel investor, may also be used. 
( emphasis added). 
The screenshots indicate guidance on May 4, 2017; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
this information is binding in this proceeding, or that the guidance was in effect in any form when the 
Petitioner filed the petition in 2020. In addition, the prior guidance provided that the alien received 
the venture capital funding, which, as discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish his actual receipt 
of it. 
Furthermore, assuming that venture capital could be considered a prize or award, this would not mean 
that any and all venture capital, from whatever source, is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award. Although the Petitioner provided background material about the companies, such as 
screenshots from the companies' websites, and information regarding capital venture funding in 
general, the Petitioner did not explain or show how the evidence demonstrates the national or 
international recognition of the specific venture capital funding froni O [ I I, andl I 
as a prize or award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also argues that he "was awarded the 20181 I Award, 
byl I Business." As discussed above, the description of this type of evid~e-n-ce-in-th_e_r_e_g_u-la-ti-o~n 
provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 While the letters credited the Petitioner for securing the venture capital funding on behalf of 0, we considered his 
role under the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). . 
5 The Petitioner previously provided archived screenshots from uscis.gov entitled, "Understanding O-lA Requirements." 
3 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 6 Although he provided screenshots from I I reporting thatD received the award, the Petitioner did not establish that he 
received the 20181 !Award. In fact, the award category was for~-------~ rather 
than for individuals, indicating the Petitioner's ineligibility for the award. 
Finally, the Petitioner contends for the first time on appeal that he "was also awarded as one of thee=] I , lin 2018 byl I," and he "regret[s] that [he] did not include evidence of this 
award previously." As the Petitioner did not make this claim or present supporting documentation to 
the Director in his initial filing or after the Director afforded him an opportunity in a request for 
evidence, we will not consider this additional claim and supporting evidence in our adjudication of 
this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if"the petitioner 
was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that 
"we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 7 The Petitioner argues that membership inl I 
fulfills this criterion. The record contains a letter froml I managing director at I I who stated: 
I submit this statement as evidence of [the Petitioner's] membership inl I as a 
founder in our program beginning in the Spring of 2016. [The Petitioner's] 
membership in I I is the result of his outstanding achievements and 
extraordinary ability in the field of technology entrepreneurship. 
I receives thousands of applications per year, all through our standardized 
~o_n_h __ n_e_a_p~plication. I I focuses only on the top one percent of applicants and 
admits less than one percent of applicants.I I admits only the most outstanding 
founders who are proposing products that solve real problems or create meaningful 
innovations. The primary focus of the application process is on the skill, talent, ability, 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
and achievements of the applicant founders. We only select those founders who have 
with extraordinary business and technical skills, who have proven their outstanding 
achievements through demonstrable progress on their businesses, products, or 
prototypes. 
As ~ I member, [the Petitioner] has successfully navigated our rigorous and 
extremely selective process that demands outstanding achievements and extraordinary 
ability .... 
Although he continuously repeats regulatory language and terminology,! I's statements 
are not supported by the documentation contained in the record, nor do they demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets the requirements of this regulatory criterion. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
In addition to press coverage ofi I, the Petitioner also submitted screenshots froml I' 
website promoting itself: advertising its benefits, and listing fonded and participating companies. 8 
However, the documentation does not showl I' membership requirements or selection criteria. 
Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 9 Althoug~ I asserted thatl l"select[ s] those founders who 
have with extraordinary business and technical skills, who have proven their outstanding achievements 
through demonstrable progress on their businesses, products, or prototypes," the screenshots do not 
reflect membership requirements as a "founder" to corroborate his claims. Further,I l did 
not elaborate and explain how "demonstrable progress" portrays outstanding achievements consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. 
Finally] I did not indicate whether recognized national or international experts, as 
required by this regulatory criterion, judge the outstanding achiev~ments fo{ membership. Further, 
although the Petitioner rovided a cover a e entitled, "List of l J Jud es," and attached 
screenshots entitled,~--------------~-----~--~-----~ I I' which lists individuals' names and companies, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the 
mentors :articipate in the judging of outstanding achievements and determine membership with I J Rather, according to the screenshots froml I website, the mentors "will help you 
with product development, market fit, and who will also provide valuable introductions to help grow 
your company -fast." The Petitioner did not show that the mentors are also responsible for judging 
membership withl I Even if the mentors judge membership, the Petitioner did not establish 
8 The Petitioner also provided numerous screenshots ranging on various topics such as start-up and accelerator programs, 
lead investors, and venture capital financing; however, he did not demonstrate how they show the membership 
requirements ot1 I In addition, the Petitioner offered screenshots from onstartups.com entitled,! 0 I I I" reflecting advice froml lin submitting an application. 
Although the screenshots reflect tips in preparing an application, they do not describe any membership requirements with I I 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
5 
that they are comprised of recognized national or international experts as he only provided their names 
and companies without evidence of their recognition or acclaim. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 10 The Petitioner argues that he "provided examples from more than 20 publications that 
were about him and his company," but he only addresses two of those examples on appeal. 
Specifically, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled, 'I I 
'-------------~ 'which included the date and author, posted on bloomberg.com. The 
article, however, does not reflect published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Rather, 
the article pertains to anD developed by D in which the Petitioner comments about the app. 
Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. 
Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts: 
[His] interview oQBusiness Network, in particular, is a concerning oversight. He 
was personally interviewed and featured on a 4:00 minute segment on one of the 
network's most popular news programs,.__ _______ _,' on! • 12017. 
On this panel he discussed his contributions made to the drafting of worker scheduling 
legislation in 1 1 and his ex5ertise on worker schedulinr legislation in three 
municipalities including! _ ,I J and I _ His visual presence 
being interviewed on a panel of four industry experts is shown through the screenshots. 
_ _ _ Video evidence of this interview se ment can be found online by searching "[The 
Petitioner]" and '---------....--------1,c=J Business." If the journalists had only 
wanted to share information about.___~ the company, there would have been no need 
for [the Petitioner] to appear in person on the panel. Or to appear at all. His presence 
there was intrinsically about hi~, on the program he spoke about his personal 
efforts advocating in front of thel__J City Council and other government bodies to 
make smart policy decisions are made about hourly workers_ 
The Petitioner submitted eight still shots from the interview_ However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how any of the still shots reflect published material about him relating to his work. While 
the still shots indicate an interview on I O I' they do not corroborate his claim that 
the interview was about him. In fact, based on the still shots, the interview appears to be aboutO's 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 
D 11 Furthermore, the burden remains with the Petitioner to provide sufficient evidence to support 
his claims rather than informing us to perform an Internet search. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). In addition, the Petitioner did 
not include the author of the material. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not 
optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As it relates to other items not specifically addressed by the Petitioner, the majority of the items do 
not include the titles, dates, and/or authors of the material. Furthermore, with the exception of one 
item from f6s.com, the remaining items do not show published material about him relating to his 
work.12 Althougl th~y riefly mention his name or quote him for source material, they are not about 
him but pertain to For example, the techstartups.com screenshots reflect an article aboutO 
receiving fonding in which the Petitioner is quoted relating to the offerings of1 I the article does 
not discuss him. In fact, the Petitioner is not even mentioned in some of the items. Moreover, with 
the exception of screenshots posted on usatoday.com and wsj.com, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that any of the websites constitute professional or major trade publications or other major.13 While he 
provided statistics, such as global rankings, country rankings, category rankings, and total visits from 
SimilarWeb, the Petitioner did not explain or show the significance of the figures, indicating major 
status or standing.14 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion based on "as a member atj I " Th: 
record reflects that the Petitioner provided an email fro neral manager o~~---~J 
to the Petitioner, relating to information about "Becomin: '· a screenshot from 
.__ ____ -,---~~-......-· g an overview ofl Jane..,.....-~~-...,_ ____ __, program 
mana to the Petitioner, welcoming him to~----~ and a screenshot from 
'.========r__.listing the Petitioner as a mentor. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from l CEO of I lwho stated that he is "familiar with [the Petitioner's] work as a 
mentor atl t' and "[the Petitioner] provided guidance to web and mobile startups on 
business development, sharing his wisdom to other entrepreneurs."15 
11 For instance, the still shots reflecd 
I I" ........,,______,,.,,.,,.....---,------,--....,........,.--'. '1 t ancil , ,H,__ __ __. 
12 The screenshot from f62.com does not include the title and date and appears to be self-authored. 
13 The screenshots from usatoday.com li{===limang ore of the best places to work without any mention of the Petitioner, 
and the screenshots from wsj.com relate~~--~-.....,....,...~- with the Petitioner briefly quoted for the article. 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics)+'-·------, 
15 The Petitioner provided additional reference letters froml I CEO of ... l ---,---- ... 1..:uauWi<I I I 
CEO o~ I as evidence i;uder bisl I However, neither letter mentiondor indicates the 
Petitioner's participation as al !mentor. 
7 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
of allied field of specialization.16 The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how the evidence 
shows that he participated as a judge of the work of others. He did not establish that his participation 
as a mentor involved judging the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, 
the emails and screenshots from I I do not contain probative information detailing whom, 
what, where, and when he mentored and how such mentoring corresponds to judging the work of 
others. Likewise, whilel !indicated that the Petitioner "provided guidance," he did not 
further elaborate and explain how guiding, assisting, or advising demonstrates participation as a judge 
of the work of others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 17 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner indicates that he "led the team that develope~'s source 
code to develop the core technology which has revolutionized the wayl manageLJ I I' He does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that he developed the source code. 
Although the Petitioner's role in leading the team in developing the source code is more appropriate 
under the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner's argument 
must show how his leadership constitutes an original contribution of major significance in the field in 
order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that "his original contribution has been licensed by maJor retailers for 
approximately $1.8 million" and references licensing agreements and a '--------------' 2019 Year End Report. Although the evidence shows licensing agreement~ with retailers, such as I l,i II 1,1 I, and[ ] the Petitioner 
did not establish how entering into service agreements shows that his leadership rises to an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. He did not demonstrate that the securing of subscription 
~ments with retailers significantly impacted or influenced the overall field in a major way beyond 
L_J 18 Moreover, the Petitioner did explain the importance of receiving $1.8 million for the 
subscription license and how that equates to being majorly significant in the field. 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
17 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he submitted two testimonial letters that "describe in detail 
how [he] has led I t and "describe his original contributions to the field of technology 
entrepreneurship that resulted from him being extraordinary in this field." The letters, however, do 
not contain detailed, specific information explaining how the Petitioner's leadership has resulted in 
original contributions of ma·or significance in the field; instead, the letters make broad statements. 
For instance, L_ ____ -r--_.___.,,o-founder of I I referenced an article published in 
Techcrunch that "discuss[ed~_~and [the Petitioner's] work as bringing al ~ I 
experience to the front lines, with employees in need of products that solve problems" The record 
reflects screenshots of an article posted on techcrunch.com that reported od I indicated that I I received fonding, and quoted the Petitioner about the purpose of the app. The article does not 
mention or address the Petitioner's leadership and how it has affected the field in a significant manner. 
Moreover, I btated that as the founder and CEO, 1 I has significantly changed this 
business sector, and experienced remarkable success securin business partnerships where the I ] 
D..is_ utilized by international companies includin I I, I.__ ___ __.! c=J, I l andl ~ Again_,__ __ __,does not describe how the Petitioner has 
"significantly changed this business sector" through his leadership in the greater field other than 
securing business partnerships wit" I 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter frorr I vice president atl l, who discussed ,..::.:-;;.;..:.::....:::;...:..;:::~------,----J....C....:C.:....:.....i:..::...::..:....:.:c..::.::::..:....:c..:...,,. ___ w.....;~;:___:;.::..:....:...;;.;.::_.::..:....:c..., 
the prospective benefits of thel such as 1 
1.__ _________________ __.f' "billions of cost can be saved on both the corporate 
and employee side," and "[t]his will help minimum wage workers earn more income." (emphasis 
added). I ~ hypothesizes on the effect of thel I at some undetermined time in the 
future withc7ut showjng pow it has already significantly impacted the field in a major way. 
Furthermore(,,_.----~' does not address how the Petitioner's leadership has greatly influenced or 
affected the overall field outside ofj I 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his leadership has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 19 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.20 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att): Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
19 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
20 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
9 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, judging, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for 
an additional criterion on appeal, relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not 
reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 21 Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner serves as a CEO of a company, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
21 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
10 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12854056 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a boxer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of boxers at the top of 
the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a boxer with a long amateur and professional career in his native I l and more 
recently in the United States. The record shows that he has held the interim world champion title in 
the World Boxing Association (WBA ________ ~ class and the World Boxing Council 
(WBCi I but that in both cases the champion successfully defended his title by 
defeating the Petitioner. He was also a participant in the 2004 Olympic Games. 
The Petitioner claims that his interim world champion titles constituted one-time achievements as 
major, internationally recognized awards, and that in the alternative he also met the requirements for 
five of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). In his decision, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. 
On review, we agree with this conclusion. Despite this finding being sufficient for the Petitioner to 
meet the initial evidentiary requirement in the regulation, however, the Director went on to determine 
that the Petitioner also met two of the five evidentiary criteria that he claimed. Specifically, he found 
that the Petitioner had established his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
and that material about him and his work had been published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 1 However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
the evidentiary criteria pertaining to his membership in associations that require outstanding 
achievements, original athletic contributions of major significance, and serving in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 2 
The Director then conducted a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director 
must examine and weigh all of the evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has the 
high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. Specifically, the Director must 
review the totality of the evidence, regardless of whether certain evidence was found to be sufficient 
to meet one of the evidentiary criteria, to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or 
1 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii), respectively. 
2 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), and (viii), respectively. 
2 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that in conducting the final merits determination, the Director ignored 
or failed to consider all of the evidence together in its totality. After review, we agree, and note that 
the Director's analysis includes statements which contradict his findings when considering the initial 
evidence requirements. For example, when discussing the Petitioner's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Director focuses on evidence which does not meet that initial 
evidence requirement, including certificates from local organizations which congratulate him for his 
interim world championship title. 
Also, while the Director determined that the record included material published in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media that was about the Petitioner and his work as a boxer, 
the discussion of this evidence in the final merits determination mentions only that evidence which 
did not qualify under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, this evidence is described as being posted 
on biogs and web portals, but the Director did not identify which materials are from these sources or 
why he considered them to have reduced evidentiary weight. We note that much of this evidence was 
posted on websites devoted to the sport of boxing. The Director also refers to "published material 
requirements" which are an element of the evidentiary criterion, not a final merits determination. 
Having already determined that sufficient evidence had been submitted to meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement, rather than conducting an analysis of the requirements for the ten evidentiary criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x), he should have considered whether the balance of the record 
established that the Petitioner has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage of boxers at the top of the field. 
In addition, in considering the Petitioner's ranking as a boxer, the Director referred to two reference 
letters which indicated that the Petitioner was ranked eighth by the WBA and fourteenth by the WBC 
at the time of filing, but concluded that the record did not support that he was "at the top of the list of 
professional boxers." However, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) does not require a petitioner 
to be at the top of his or her field, but among those in the very small percentage at the top. Further, 
the record contains evidence from both organizations regarding the Petitioner's ranking which the 
Director should have considered. 
We also note that the Director requested additional evidence that the Petitioner is coming to the United 
States to continue work as a boxer in compliance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), which requires "clear 
evidence" and "detail[ ed] plans." In response, the Petitioner resubmitted a letter in which he states 
that he will "continue my endeavors" as a boxer. While the record also includes a management 
contract for the Petitioner, it expired more than one year prior to the filing of this petition. On remand, 
the Director should consider whether the record includes clear evidence that the Petitioner will 
continue his boxing career in the United States. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. Because the Director has already determined that the Petitioner meets the 
initial evidentiary requirements, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the 
record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim. It should also analyze whether the record demonstrates 
3 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and whether the 
Petitioner submitted detailed plans and clear evidence that he will continue his boxing career in the 
United States. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12964814 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement of this classification through either 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Master of Fine Art deqree in animation froml !College of Art and 
Design in 2013, and has been employed withl I since 2015. He indicates that he 
intends to continue employment with this company in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets 
six of these evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Director did not apply the plain language of two of the criteria per established 
agency policy, 1 and failed to consider evidence submitted in support of another criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to two awards which he asserts that he received: 
I Finalist, D Annual Shorty Awards) I category .......-"'---------, I Silver, 2018 Marketing Awards_________ category .___ ______ ___. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. [page number] (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 
The evidence accompanying each of these awards consists of pages from the websites of each of the 
organizations, which include brief descriptions of the advertisements and a list of those whose names 
were submitted with the entries. The Petitioner appears on both I ists as a "CG artist." 
In his decision, the Director noted that the Petitioner was not the "sole recipient" of either award, and 
that they were "not the top awards bestowed to winners." However, neither of these are elements of 
this criterion, and the Director evaluated the evidence under this criterion as well as the standard 
applicable to a final merits determination. The plain language of this criterion requires that the 
Petitioner be a recipient of an award, that the award was granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field 
of endeavor, and that the award is recognized at the national or international level. 2 Therefore, on 
remand, the Director should reevaluate this evidence to determine whether the Petitioner was a 
recipient of an award, as well as whether any awards he received were for excellence in the field of 
computer graphics, visual effects and animation. If so, the Director should then determine whether 
any such awards are nationally or internationally recognized in the Petitioner's field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
As noted in the Director's decision, the record includes evidence of the Petitioner's work on 
advertising campaigns for well-known brands which appeared on television and other video media. 
In making his finding regarding this criterion, the Director cited to a federal district court decision, 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008), for the proposition 
that this criterion is limited to the visual arts. The Director then goes on to conclude that since the 
Petitioner "is not a visual artist and has not created tangible pieces of art that were on display at 
exhibitions or showcases," he does not meet the plain language of this criterion. We first note that 
despite the Director's statement, the nature of the Petitioner's work in computer graphics and 
animation is visual. More importantly, we disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain 
language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists and those that produce 
tangible or physical art. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's 
own work product and that the exhibition or showcase at which his or her work was displayed be 
artistic in nature. On remand, the Director should consider only these elements which appear in the 
plain language of the regulation in reviewing the evidence.3 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of his claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for the 
years of 2017 and 2018, earnings statements for several months in 2018 and 2019, a letter from 
president of I I and commercial and governmental salary surveys for 
occupations related to his.4 The letter, which the Petitioner asserts is from his certified public 
accountant, states that the author "anticipates" that the Petitioner's gross income in 2019 will be 
2 See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 
3 See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121. 
4 The Petitioner also submitted his 2019 Form W-2 on appeal. 
3 
"between $145,000 and $155,000," an estimate which is "based on his current day rate of $700 per 
day." 
In his decision, the Director stated that he was "unable to decipher what [the Petitioner's] current 
annual salary [is] because we are unable to resolve the discrepancy in his annual and hourly wage 
figures as cited in [the letter from the president of I ~-" He bases this 
conclusion on a comparison of his own extrapolated annual salary based on the Petitioner's "day rate" 
cited in the letter to the estimated annual salary provided in this letter, and questions the validity of 
these estimates based upon the difference between them. The Director then states that this 
"discrepancy" between the two figures "may lead to a reevaluation of the reliability and sufficiency 
of the remaining evidence," and that such discrepancies must be resolved by independent objective 
evidence. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). He adds that it "appeared" that the 
Petitioner received bonuses and other compensation in addition to his salary and "there are too many 
variables involved." 
We first note that, despite the Petitioner's claim, the letter from,___ _______ ___,does not 
identify the writer as an accountant or indicate the source of his knowledge of the Petitioner's or his 
company's financial position. Further, the figures stated in this letter are merely projections which 
are insufficient to establish the Petitioner's actual salary. Therefore, given the minimal probative value 
of this evidence, the Director should not have relied upon it to the exclusion of other, more probative 
evidence in the record. 
In addition, as noted by the Petitioner on appeal, the Director's calculation of the Petitioner's annual 
salary based upon the day rate stated in the letter is based upon the flawed assumption that he, as a 
contract worker, will receive this amount for every workday in a year. This assumption led to the 
finding of a discrepancy with the projected annual figures stated in the letter, and ultimately to the 
Director discounting more reliable evidence of the Petitioner's salary in the record. On remand, the 
Director should consider whether this more reliable evidence, including the earnings statements and 
IRS forms, establish that his salary is (or was) high in relation to others in his field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. If after review of the evidence 
consistent with the analysis provided above, the Director determines that the Petitioner meets the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria, he should then then consider the totality of the material provided 
in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12968384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an illustration artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for the classification through his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who creates digital illustrations primarily for video games. His work has 
also been displayed in books featuring digital art as well as at exhibitions. He states that he intends to 
continue to create and display his digital illustrations in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions and his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the evidentiary criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards and published material about him and his work in professional, major trade or other major 
media. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he meets the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification, but has not established that he has enjoyed sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes several articles in which the Petitioner is mentioned, including interviews. In his 
decision, the Director found several issues with the material submitted. He stated that some were not 
1 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) relating to a leading or 
critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation, he does not contest the Director's decision relating to this 
criterion on appeal or otherwise refer to it in his appeal brief. We will therefore consider this issue to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-. 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
about the Petitioner, and that others appeared to have been published on biogs and websites and thus 
had "little probative value for meeting this criterion." However, while the Director pointed out 
concerns over the quality of such published material, such as the fact that it may not be edited and may 
reflect undisclosed bias, we note that the criterion does not directly address the issue of quality. If the 
material otherwise meets the elements of this criterion, the quality of the writing may be addressed 
along with the totality of the evidence in a final merits determination, if applicable. 
The Director also concluded that the English translations of foreign-language material in the record 
did not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) as they were not accompanied by a 
certification as to their completeness and accuracy and to the translator's competence. However, we 
note that both the initial submission and the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) included such a certification with a list of the translated documents and the exhibit number 
under which they were submitted. On review, we find that this evidence meets the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), and we will therefore consider the translated material in our review. 
The Petitioner submitted an interview of him which appeared on the website gnn.gamer.com.tw dated 
I , ,I ?,014. The article lists an author, and interviews the Petitioner about art he completed for a 
game created forl [ 2 This material is therefore about him and his work in his field. Other 
interviews of the Petitioner concerning his work as a digital illustration artist appeared in the I I 
2010 issue of CG Art Style, and in thd lc2011) of Mars CG magazine. Other materials in 
the record are not about the Petitioner, as they were either written by him, do not mention his name or 
simply show his work without commentary or background about him. 
The record also includes information about the media in which these materials appeared. For the 
website gamer.com.tw, also referred to as Bahamut, the evidence includes references to its internet 
traffic and ranking by independent sources as one of the most visited websites in Taiwan, and the 
country's most popular gaming website. This evidence is sufficient to establish it as a major medium. 
However, the evidence regarding CG Art Style and Mars CG does not include such independent and 
verifiable evidence, or that they could otherwise qualify as professional or major trade publications. 
Although the Petitioner submitted additional evidence regarding CG Art Style on appeal, we will not 
consider that evidence, as this evidence was requested by the Director in his RFE. Where, as here, a 
petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. See 
Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Therefore, based solely upon the interview of the Petitioner which was published on 
gamer.com.tw, we disagree with the Director and conclude that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he served as one of two jury members for the "League of 
Legends 2014.__ ___________ __, Painting Competition" and one of seven professional 
2 We note that the article refers to the Petitioner as both c=J his artist name, and I I' an alias which is not 
explained in the record. However, photographs which accompany the article clearly show the Petitioner. 
3 
judges for the.__ _______ ___. Illustration Content in Taiwan" in 2015. We therefore agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that his work was displayed at the following artistic exhibitions: 
• "Fantas Digital Art Exhibition,"~! ---~!Public Assembly Hall,I.___ _ __. 
• 
• 
• 1---------....---' Painting -Personal Illustration Exhibition," I I Museum of Art, 
1---.---------' Taiwan, June 29 to August 7, 2011 and._l ---------'------------'I. 
2011 
Digital Art Creation Exhibition,' Folklore Culture Museum, LJ 2013 
1-----'---=--. rt Exhibition,'! li\rt Gallery_,__ _ __. I I 2011 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three criteria, and 
therefore meets the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification. Although he also claims to 
meet a fourth criterion, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, we 
need not consider whether he meets additional criteria. Rather, we will analyze the evidence of any 
prizes or awards received by the Petitioner together with the balance of the record in conducting a 
final merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
Although the Petitioner did not provide detailed arguments related to the final merits determination in 
his appeal brief: we note that in his initial submission he focused on reference letters in the record 
from other artists. The first such letter was written bvl I who states that she holds leadership 
positions with several artistic associations in Taiwan. I I indicates that after viewing the 
Petitioner's exhibition at the I I Public Assembly Hall in 2013, she invited him to 
exhibit his work inl I She goes on to describe him as a "nationally famous illustration artist," 
and notes his participation as a judge of the work of others. However, the letter does not provide 
additional or detailed information about the Petitioner's acclaim as an artist beyond other evidence in 
the record, nor does it provide insight into how the Petitioner's work has elevated his standing in the 
field of illustration art. 
Another letter was submitted byl I general manager of~------~Contents 
Academy, a training center for computer graphics students. He explains that the Petitioner was invited 
4 
to work as an instructor at the academy for seven months, during which he became familiar with the 
Petitioner's work. I I also indicates that the Petitioner was a very popular instructor, and 
that he "has everything it takes to be a great animation artist." But he does not expand upon the 
"excellent achievement[ s ]" the Petitioner has already accomplished in his career, or indicate that his 
brief period as an instructor led to acclaim or elevated standing in the broader digital illustration field. 
Other reference letters in the record mention that the Petitioner's work was featured as the cover art 
for the hardcover version ofi I a collection of digital art published in 2010. I I one 
of the Petitioner's colleagues, states that this shows that "his work is highly rated among illustration 
experts." Although the record confirms that this art was selected from hundreds of others which appear 
in the book, these letters from the Petitioner's colleagues and employers do not show that this led to, 
or is indicative ot: national or international acclaim in the field. In addition, the record includes one 
review of this book and another forl I which also included examples of the Petitioner's work 
(although not on the cover.) These reviews generally praise the books and the quality of the art 
displayed in them, but do not single out the Petitioner's work or that of any of the hundreds of other 
artists whose work is displayed. 
As discussed above in relation to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), the Petitioner's digital 
paintings have also been displayed in artistic exhibitions in galleries and museums. The evidence 
relating to these exhibitions includes photographs, information about the venues that hosted them, and 
media articles covering them. For the exhibition held at I I Public Assembly Hall id I 
this includes an article which was posted on two biogs and in Uni~ed Dail) News, which is described 
as a local newspaper. Similarly, the Petitioner's exhibition at th Folklore Culture Museum 
was covered in two articles published in thel !Daily News. However, the record does not include 
information about the circulation or readership of these publications, and thus does not show that these 
exhibitions received extensive national or international coverage or attention. Although the Petitioner 
did include some information about Artist ma=azine which indicates that it is distributed in Taiwan 
and abroad, the brief article regarding thd I Art Exhibition simply announces the dates of 
this exhibition and does not mention the Petitioner or his work. In addition, the evidence submitted 
regarding the venues where these exhibitions were held does not demonstrate that they were highly 
regarded or prestigious to the extent that the exhibition of the Petitioner's work in them would have 
brought him acclaim or recognition. For instance, we note that thel lgallery promotes itself 
as a free exhibition space for artists where they can "hold [their] own art exhibition show," and that 
thee=] Gallery is affiliated with an elementary school inl I 
Regarding the articles in the record which focused on the Petitioner more than the exhibitions in which 
his work appeared, we noted above that only one of these, published on the Bahamut website, appeared 
on a medium that was a professional, major trade or other major medium. That interview focused on 
his work which was created for the mobile gamel I and noted that he was one of six 
Taiwanese artists invited to create unique characters for the game. Another interview, published in 
the online ·magazine CG Art Style in 2010, presents his opinion on a wide range of topics related to 
digital artwork in games and as illustration art, as does a third interview published in Mars CG in 
2011. While all of these interviews show that there is a level of interest in the Petitioner and his work 
as an artist, this evidence does not show that that interest is widespread in the field of digital illustration 
art. 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his receipt of an award in the I I Illustration 
Painting Competition" in 2018. The evidence indicates that this competition was organized by the 
Taiwan branch o_,__ ________________ ___.was limited to "creators" from certain 
Asian and Pacific island countries, and featured characters from a popular computer game. The 
Petitioner is listed as the recipient of the second place I I award for his entry, which 
included a prize of NTD 10,0003 and a hooded sweatshirt. The Petitioner notes on appeal that the 
Director referred to a completely different award in his decision, which related to an e-sports 
competition. While we agree that the Director improperly considered unrelated material not in the 
record, the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the award he received was considered prestigious 
or otherwise recognized in the illustration art field at the national or international level. Despite the 
Petitioner's claims, the fact that the competition was open to residents of several countries and was 
thus international in scope does not lead to the conclusion that the awards granted were prestigious 
and bestowed a high level of acclaim upon the recipients. In addition, the relatively small amount of 
the cash prize and the lack of evidence of recognition or mention of the competition beyond the 
organizer's website do not support such claims. 
The evidence in the record pertaining to the Petitioner's service as a judge in digital illustration 
competitions in 2014 and 2015 demonstrates that he is considered to be an expert in this field due to 
his many years of creating content for video games and the display of his work at the aforementioned 
exhibitions and in published collections. However, this evidence does not show that this participation 
as a judge is indicative of the requisite level of acclaim for the requested immigrant visa classification. 
The evidence regarding the contests shows that they were open to all ages and skill levels, so that the 
Petitioner judged the work of amateurs as opposed to that of primarily professional artists, and the 
record lacks evidence that these contests and their winners were recognized outside of the websites of 
the sponsoring organizations' websites to the broader field. 
Lastly, while the Petitioner did not assert his previous claim to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we note that he submitted reference letters describing his roles atl I 
.__ _______ _.and thel I Arts Association. Regarding his former position as head of 
the 2D art team for several video game projects,! I a former colleague, states that the 
Petitioner designed more than 50 characters for the game .__ ______ ~ _ ___.Online," and thus 
made a great contribution to the game which was well-received at an industry convention. But the 
record does not include evidence showing that the games to which the Petitioner contributed were 
highly regarded in terms of commercial performance or critical acclaim, or that the Petitioner was 
credited and recognized for playing an important part in their development. We note that the materials 
in the record which describe I Is success in developing video games refer to successes that 
occurred prior to the Petitioner's employment with the company, or refer to games to which I I 
letter does not state that the Petitioner contributed. 
As for thel O I Arts Association, a letter from I I chairman of the association's 
council, explains that the Petitioner served as the organization's executive supervisor from 2013 to 
2014, in which role he elected or removed other supervisors and approved their resignation, among 
Currently equivalent to approximately $350.00 per 
https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/? Amount= 1 0000&From=TWD&To=USD, accessed on Febrnary 12, 
2021. 
6 
other duties. The materials from the association's website indicate that it was active in 2015 and 2016 
in promoting art and artists by sponsoring exhibitions and other activities inl I While the 
Petitioner's invitation to serve in this role reflects a certain level of respect from his fellow artists, as 
well as his willingness to serve the local artistic community, the evidence does not show that this 
service brought him acclaim, or that the position is reserved for the small percentage of artists at the 
top of the field. 
Considered together, the evidence establishes that the Petitioner is a successful digital illustrator who 
is respected by his peers, but does not show that he has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or 
international level. In addition, although he has contributed to online games and his work as an 
illustrator has been exhibited in artistic venues and in print, the totality of the record does not establish 
that he has achieved an elevated standing among the very few at the top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13011510 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an academic medical center, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner's evidence meets these initial requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary trained in India and the United Kingdom and undertook residencies a~ I 
Hospital before a three-year fello1ship atl I , I Michigan. Since 2017, the Beneficiary 
has worked for the Petitioner as a critical care specialist.1 He is the chair and medical director 
of the Petitioner·d I Critical Response and Resuscitation Committee, and director o~ 
Simulations in the Petitiojler'g I Intensive Care Unit. He is also an assistant professor ofl___J 
atl University, which has a medical school affiliated with the Petitioner. 
Because we agree with the Director that the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they 
have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts: 
[The Beneficiary] is a nationally renowned I I Critical Care Specialist~!--~ 
lntensivist and researcher who specializes in the field of pediatric critical care 
1 The Petitioner previously filed an immigrant petition on the Beneficiary's behalf in October 2013, seeking to classify the 
Beneficiary as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree under section 203(b)(2)(A) of the Act. That petition 
was approved in November 2013. 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
medicine, dealing with critically ill~-----------====-~ He 
has achieved sustained national acclaim as a recognized authority~ cardio 
therapy issues, congenital heart disease, medical simulations forl__J Intensive 
Care Units, and the use of vasoactive-ventilation-renal scores to achieve reliable 
predictions of post-operative outcomes tori I undergoing cardiac surgery. 
In denying the petition, the Di rector stated that the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary has earned 
sustained national or international acclaim for his work at the petitioning institution. The Director also 
acknowledged the Beneficiary's published articles, but concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted 
comparative evidence to show that others have cited the Beneficiary's articles at a rate "commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim." For example, a Google Scholar printout in the record 
shows 13 citations of the Beneficiary's most-cited article as of August 2019; on appeal, the Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence demonstrating that such a citation rate is noteworthy within the field. 
The Petitioner notes the impact factors of the journals that published the Beneficiary's articles, but 
does not show that those articles have had an impact or otherwise stood out in a manner that would 
show that the Beneficiary is an acclaimed researcher at the top of his field. The reputation of a given 
journal does not establish or imply acclaim for individual researchers whose work appears in that 
journal. The Beneficiary's authorship of articles indicates that he is an active contributor in his 
specialty, but does not rise to the higher level of establishing sustained national or international acclaim 
or place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. Much of the record points to the 
same conclusion. For instance, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary obtained "extensive 
experience reviewing and julging thl work of others in his field ... due to his national acclaim and 
experience as one of the top clinical care specialists in the nation," but the record does not 
indicate that his judging activity goes beyond routine peer review of manuscripts and evaluation of 
subordinates and job candidates. 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary's "pioneering original research ... has led to groundbreaking 
findings" that affect the care of I !patients with serious and life-threatening conditions. The 
record lacks documentary evidence to establish that the Beneficiary's contributions have earned him 
sustained national or international acclaim. Instead, the Petitioner relies heavily on letters from 
individuals with demonstrable connections to the Beneficiary, and whose first-hand knowledge of the 
Beneficiary's work does not imply wider recognition. 
Individuals who have employed, trained, or collaborated with the Beneficiary assert that he has made 
valuable contributions to his field, but the record does not show that these contributions have resulted 
in field-wide recognition tantamount to national or international acclaim. For example, the vasoactive­
ventilation-renal (VVR) score is a clinical tool used to predict length of hospital stay and treatment 
outcome for I I patients who undergo cardiac surgery. The Petitioner states that the 
Beneficiary's "research demonstrated that the WR score is a reliable measure of critical illness 
severity in I I patients and was therefore recognized as one of the Top 10 Contributions to 
Cardiology in 2019 by AvidScience." 
However, the Petitioner's statement conflicts with evidence submitted. The record includes a partial 
printout of the ebook Top 10 Contributions on Cardiology. The printout does not indicate that the 
contributions were "recognized ... by AvidScience." Rather, the ebook is a compilation of excerpts 
3 
of scholarly articles, and Avid Science is the ebook's open source publisher. The record sheds no light 
on who compiled the book, or the criteria they used when selecting contributions. The use of the 
phrase "Top 10" does not establish a broad consensus, and the record lacks evidence of the ebook's 
readership or reputation within the field. The Petitioner refers to the book as a "textbook," but the 
record does not document the book's use in this manner. 
Furthermore, Chapter 9 of that book, "WR Score Predicts Intensive Care Unit Length of Stay in 
Patients Undergoing Re-entry Sternotomy," is not an article by the Beneficiary. Instead, the 
Beneficiary was a co-author of one of the 26 source articles cited in the bibliography. The cited article 
described the outcome of a study that "sought to validate" the WR score. The record shows that the 
Beneficiary refined the WR score, but did not originate it; he is not named as a co-author of the 
earliest articles about it. Thus, while his work on it is undisputed, the record does not demonstrate 
that accolades given to the WR score reflect acclaim and recognition of the Beneficiary's work. 
A professor atl I University School of Medicine, who was the corresponding author of the 
paper that introduced the VVR score, states that the Beneficiary initially participated in a project 
involving the petitioning institution "along with six other institutions," with "eight additional 
institutions ... recruited" for a second study; the study program "currently involves 21 centers in 
the United States." The Director did not dispute the overall importance and impact of this multi­
institutional study, but it does not follow that every participant has earned national or international 
acclaim as a result, and the leader of the project does not explain how the Beneficiary, in particular, 
achieved acclaim through his participation. 
As another example of discussion of the Beneficiary's impact, one of h B neficiary's mentors states 
that the Beneficiary co-wrote an article that "was referenced in the Cardiac Intensive Care 
Society's 2014 Consensus Statement, I I -.. [which] demonstrates that [the Beneficiary's] research has been used to establish 
treatment protocols." The record does not include a copy of the consensus statement or establish its 
influence and implementation, and thus does not support the mentor's statement on the impact and 
recognition of the Beneficiary's work by the field. 
The Petitioner's statements regarding the significance of the Beneficiary's achievements often go 
beyond what the record reliably supports. For example, in its initial submission, the Petitioner quoted 
a letter in the record as follows: "Because of his expertise and acclaim [the Beneficiary] is one of only 
a few physicians from the State of Ohio selected to be a member of the American Heart Association's 
planning and steering committee." The Petitioner described this committee as a "scientific or 
professional association," but it was a group that convened temporarily in order to organize one 
particular medical conference at the regional level (attracting attendees "from Ohio, Pennsylvania and 
Kentucky"). The individual who provided the quotation does not claim to have been involved in the 
selection of steering committee members, and does not explain how she is otherwise in a position to 
attest to the selection process. 3 The Petitioner does not submit first-hand evidence from the American 
Heart Association to show how it selected steering committee members. 
3 The Petitioner misattributes this quotation to the letter marked as exhibit 33. The quoted passage actually appears in a 
different letter, marked as exhibit 15, from an individual who co-authored a paper with the Beneficiary. Her curriculum 
vitae does not mention membership in the American Heart Association; her specialty is anesthesiology. 
4 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's membership as a "Fellow" of the American College of 
Critical Care Medicine "is of particular importance," because it "recognizes individuals who have 
demonstrated significant contributions and have made an impact in the critical care profession at a 
regional, state, or national level." However, the record does not identify the Beneficiary's 
contributions that qualified him for this level of membership or indicate that those contributions 
impacted the field at a national level. The Beneficiary's "Fellow" status does not imply or create any 
presumption that he has had a national impact, because impact "at a regional [or] state ... level" are 
sufficient to qualify for that status. Therefore, the Beneficiary's satisfaction of a requirement for 
"impact ... at a regional, state, or national level" does not rise to the level of national or international 
acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner submits letters from individuals who assert that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim, but the objective, documentary evidence of record does not provide 
consistent or reliable support for these assertions. The record as a whole portrays the Beneficiary as 
a diligent and productive member of his profession, but does not rise to the much higher level 
necessary to place the Beneficiary among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the smal I percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b){l){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13189151 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dermatologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner established a clinic in I I offering "skincare and aesthetic treatments." She 
asserts that she is "a frequent ... guest in several mass media TV and Radio shows, providing her medical 
expert opinion for skin health & treatments and non-invasive aesthetic treatments." The Petitioner also 
speaks at trade conventions, at the invitation of suppliers. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
I (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
I (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
I (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the criterion numbered (ix), relating to 
compensation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the six other claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's determination regarding the Petitioner's 
remuneration. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits information about several I I television and radio programs, and 
screenshots from her YouTube channel of her appearances on those shows. These still images, 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that her appearances amounted to published 
material about her, relating to her work, rather than commentary or advice regarding topics within her 
area of expertise. The screenshots show web addresses for the videos on the Petitioner's YouTube 
channel, but the broadcasts were in Spanish and the Petitioner has not provided complete transcripts of 
the broadcasts, with certified translations of their content. Therefore, the Petitioner has shown that the 
broadcasts occurred, but has provided only vague, general information about the subjects discussed. The 
Petitioner has not established that she was the subject of news coverage relating to her work, rather than 
a commentator providing general information and advice about skin care. 
The Petitioner also submits printouts or photocopies from various sources. Many of these materials 
appear to be promotional materials, rather than media coverage. Several publications ran pieces 
promoting the same fat removal procedure, featuring what appears to be the same quotation from the 
Petitioner, or a paraphrased rewording thereof, regarding the importance of consulting with a physician. 
Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling one's products or promoting one's services are 
not generally considered to be published material about the individual.1 
Other submitted pieces are lists of aesthetic procedures, the names of providers, and the prices they charge 
for those procedures. The Petitioner's business is among those listed, sometimes but not always naming 
the Petitioner individually. A list or directory is not about the Petitioner simply because her name, or that 
of her company, is included. 
A reduced-size image of a print article from Gente identifies the Petitioner and her business, but the 
English translation is not complete as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Instead, the Petitioner only 
submits a translation of the story's headline. Therefore, the submitted evidence does not show that the 
article is about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the field. A banner at the bottom of the page shows 
the address, telephone number, and website of the Petitioner's business, which suggests that the piece is 
an advertisement rather than media coverage of the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner submits a photocopy and translation of the first page of an article from the magazine 
Nacer & Crecer. The incomplete article and translation are of limited evidentiary value. The 
Petitioner is the author, rather than the subject, of the article. The submitted fragment consists mainly 
of a discussion of a procedure offered by the Petitioner's business. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the submitted articles and printouts are 
published material about her, relating to her work in the field. 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submits 14 letters to support her claim that she has made qualifying contributions "by 
taking care of the skin health and image of prominent TV and Radio personalities." Eight of these letters 
are the same, apart from the names and biographical details of the individuals who signed them. The 
identical wording strongly suggests a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner herself.2 
Furthermore, none of the submitted letters identifies any specific original contributions by the Petitioner 
or explain how those contributions are of major significance in the field. Instead, the letters praise the 
Petitioner's skill and indicate that she has mastered cutting-edge technology. There is no indication that 
the Petitioner invented that technology; some of the letters are from companies that developed equipment 
or techniques that she uses. The use of technology developed by others is not an original contribution. 
Apart from the letters, the Petitioner points to her "use of social media." Screenshots prove that her clinic 
has pages on Facebook and lnstagram, but the Petitioner does not explain how her "use of social media" 
amounts to an original contribution, or that such a contribution is of major significance in the field of 
dermatology and skin care. 
Following a request for evidence, the Petitioner has asserted that her media appearances constitute original 
contributions of major significance because she "contributed her medical expertise," but she does not 
identify any new information that she provided to the audience and readers. Instead, the Petitioner appears 
to have discussed existing treatments and techniques. The Petitioner states that she provided "tips" in 
some of these appearances, but does not show that those tips originated with her. Passing along 
information that was already in use among dermatologists is not an original contribution, even if members 
of a given audience were unfamiliar with that information. 
The Petitioner has not identified any original contributions of major significance in her field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner contends that several of the pieces claimed, above, as published material about her are 
also scholarly articles by her. The Director observed that the materials are not scholarly. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends that "[t]he publication needs [sic] not be 'scholarly,"' because the regulatory 
language refers to "professional or major trade publications or other major media." The wording of 
the regulation plainly refers to "scholarly articles." A scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship.")3 The submitted pieces are written for a general audience, aimed at members of the 
public who seek medical advice or are considering certain cosmetic procedures. 
2 Cf. Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
Most of the cited materials are, as discussed above, promotional stories that include brief quotations 
from the Petitioner. The regulation requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles," rather 
than brief quotations in what appear to be, essentially, advertisements. 
An article about al I treatment acknowledges "advice" from four dermatologists, one of whom 
is the Petitioner. She asserts that she "collaborated as an Expert Medical Advisor." The Petitioner is 
not the credited author of the article, and the acknowledgment does not specify the nature or extent of 
her input. Furthermore, the article was written for a general, rather than scholarly, level of 
comprehension. For instance, the article explains whatl l is, and how it is isolated from 
otherl !components. From the wording, it is evident that the intended readers are prospective 
patients, rather than trained experts learning how to perform a new procedure. 
The Petitioner is the author of the remaining two articles, but they are not scholarly. The translation 
of the fragment of the Nacer & Crecer article reads as though written for a general readership, rather 
than for learned persons in the field of dermatology. The translation begins: "There are currently 
treatment[s] and new technology that help[] us look much better. Nothing sexier than wearing 
beautiful legs all year long!" As noted above, the Petitioner has not submitted a translation of the 
Gente article, and therefore she has not shown its content to be scholarly. 
The record does not include any scholarly articles written by the Petitioner. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she "has been displayed at relevant conferences as a professional speaker ... 
and exhibited" on various broadcast and print media. The Petitioner asserts that the term "showcase" 
"is applicable to any setting, occasion, or medium for exhibiting something or someone, including 
corporate conventions." By regulation, the exhibition or showcase must be "artistic."4 The Petitioner 
has not shown this to be the case with her appearances. 
Also, the purpose of the exhibition or showcase must be to display the individual's work. In this 
instance, the Petitioner spoke at a trade "convention [which] was a showcase of the company's new 
products." The Petitioner submitted letters from officials of several such companies, manufacturers 
of equipment used in the Petitioner's profession. The Petitioner's participation in the promotion of 
suppliers' products does not cause the event to become a display of the Petitioner's work, rather than 
the products being promoted. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
5 
The Petitioner claims to have performed in a critical role for various media outlets. The Petitioner must 
establish that she has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. 5 
The Petitioner asserts: 
Because of the nature of [the Petitioner's] comments and recommendations when she is 
interviewed by TV Shows, Radio Shows, Newspapers and Magazines, it is critical that 
she provides the best recommendation about skin care treatments and non-invasive 
aesthetics treatments, as well as relevant information to reduce risks an[d] damage to the 
public. Any misinformation can damage the credibility of the TV Show, Radio Show, 
Newspaper or Magazine, thus, [the Petitioner] has played a critical and relevant role for 
these mass media at the time she provides her expertise on the very important issue that is 
skin care and non-invasive aesthetic treatments. 
By the Petitioner's logic, everyone quoted in the media regarding their area of expertise performs in a 
critical role for the publishers or broadcasters that disseminate those quotations. Speaking credibly within 
one's area of authority may be a professional obligation, but the Petitioner has not established that the 
reputations of these broadcasters and publishers hinge, to any significant extent, on the accuracy of the 
Petitioner's comments in print or on camera. 
Initially, the Petitioner cited only her media appearances as critical roles. In later submissions, the 
Petitioner has also asserted that her clinic is "one of the most prestigious centers for skincare ... and 
noninvasive aesthetic treatments irl I." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she "is the Director 
and owner of one of the most iconic aesthetic clinics inl I," which "is recognized by the most 
distinguished multinational companies specializ[ing] in skincare and aesthetic treatments." The record 
establishes the Petitioner's leading role with her business, but not that it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that her clinic's "Facebook page has over 39,000 followers and her lnstagram 
account over 13,000, totaling 52,000 ... people following [the company's] accounts." These numbers 
add up to 52,000 followers only if we assume there is no overlap between the two groups of followers. 
Aside from that issue, the Petitioner does not submit com1arative evidence to show the follower counts 
of other clinics that provide similar services inl Without this context, the follower counts do 
not show that her clinic has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner submits printouts of blog posts 
about "micro-influencers," but these materials do not provide any basis for comparison between the 
reputation of the Petitioner's clinic and those of rival businesses in the same field. 
The Petitioner claims that published articles in La Nacion identify her clinic as "the best option" or "one 
of the best option[s]" for particular treatments. The articles in question, however, are essentially lists of 
procedures, with information about clinics that perform those procedures. The articles do not describe 
the Petitioner's clinic as being "the best" or "one of the best." The articles do not characterize the 
Petitioner's clinic as anything other than an example of where to obtain a given treatment. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner acknowledges that she is not employed in the performing arts, but asserts that her high 
remuneration is comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The "commercial successes" criterion does not refer to a given individual's personal income. That 
income is already covered by the above criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Rather, criterion (x) 
concerns the commercial success of projects in which the individual participated, documented by 
evidence such as box office receipts for films or record sales. The Petitioner has not identified any 
products or projects that would be analogous to a motion picture, play, concert, or recording, such that 
it would be comparable to commercial successes in the performing arts, and she has not submitted 
evidence comparable to box office receipts or record sales. Instead, she submits a letter from her 
accountant, and copies of two income tax returns that do not specify the source(s) of her income. 
We agree that this criterion does not readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation, but the Petitioner has 
not submitted comparable evidence as the regulations require. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted letters from prominent clients, and shown 
that she has appeared on television on some occasions, but the record as a whole does not demonstrate 
a level of recognition that indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11823960 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer engineer and researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from I I University, and 
underwent postdoctoral traring at Td I from 2016 to 2018. 
His w rk involved communication relating to the Internet of Things (IoT), such as the 
use of to search inventory! I and scannin medical implants powered byB 
=====-=at=h:.:.er=--t=h:.:;an batteries. He is now a senior engineer at where "he is focusing o I I networks architecturesj continu[ing] research into.__ ___ ___, network design, as well 
as network I lthrougH~--~_techniques."1 The Petitioner is named on several U.S. patents. 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
1 We note that the Petitioner submits a copy of an approval notice, showing thatl I filed an immigrant petition on his 
behalf in March 2019, seeking to classify him as an outstanding professor or researcher under section 203(b )(1 )(B) of the 
Act. That petition, approved in May 2019, has an earlier priority date than the petition now on appeal. For visa number 
allocation purposes, both petitions fall within the same classification. Therefore, the approval of the present petition would 
not expedite the Petitioner's ability to become a lawful permanent resident. Furthermore, because the Petitioner's 
employment at! !predates the filing ot: and is not predicated upon, the present petition, the dismissal of this appeal 
does not present any legal obstacle to his continued employment there while he pursues adjustment of status incident to 
that employment. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
2 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has written scholarly articles and participated in peer 
review of articles written by others. Nevertheless, writing and reviewing such articles appear to be routine 
in the Petitioner's field, rather than a privilege reserved for acclaimed individuals at the top of the field. 
The Director also noted that others have cited the Petitioner's published work, but the Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that only those at the top of the field are cited at a comparable rate. 
The Director concluded that, while the Petitioner "has won the respect of his collaborators, employers, 
and others ... , the record stops short of ... [ establishing] sustained national or international acclaim." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "fail[ ed] to review the substantial documentary evidence 
of record showing Beneficiary to be a top figure within the area of I I network and automation." 
The Petitioner states, for instance, that the Director disregarded evidence showing that the Petitioner ''was 
asked to [participate in] peer review because of his sustained national and international acclaim." 
The evidence does not fully support the Petitioner's assertions on appeal. For example, the Petitioner 
states: 
Because of Petitioner's work and his sustained acclaim, Petitioner was invited to peer 
review 21 different articles for 3 high-impact and internationally circulated journals. 
Generally only those who are at the very top of their area of expertise are invited to peer 
review on these journals, and the submitted evidence includes proof that Petitioner was 
asked to peer review because of his sustained acclaim (see Petition Exhibit 7.2). He was 
also asked to serve on three technical program committees because of his extraordinary 
ability. 
Exhibit 7.2 is a set of email printouts relating to an invitation for the Petitioner to review a manuscript 
submitted for publication in Transactions on Mobile Computing (TMC). The invitation message from an 
associate editor reads, in part: 
I am overseeing the review process of this paper and believe you are one of the experts 
best qualified to judge whether or not this paper should be accepted by the journal. 
TMC relies heavily on expert reviewers such as yourself to maintain the quality and 
relevance of the journal. ... 
If you are unable to complete the review at this time, we would be grateful if you could 
recommend a qualified student, postdoc, or colleague to review this paper. 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
This message does not support the claim that "only those who are at the very top of their area of expertise 
are invited" to participate in peer review. The letter refers to the Petitioner as an "expert," but one can be 
an "expert" without being "at the very top of [one's] area of expertise." The quoted invitation clearly 
indicates that students and postdoctoral trainees participate in that journal's peer review process, even 
though, by definition, they have not yet completed their training. The Petitioner himself was still a 
doctoral student when he received the quoted invitation in 2016. The record shows that the Petitioner 
received one peer review invitation in November 2011, less than two years after he received his bachelor's 
degree. None of the invitation emails in the record indicate or imply that peer review is a privilege 
restricted for top experts, rather than a responsibility shared by individuals with relevant subject matter 
knowledge. 
The Petitioner states that 20 submitted articles show that "his research was featured in media across the 
world," and protests that the Director inaccurately referred to "merely 'an article."' With the lone 
exception of a 2015 article in al I newsletter, reporting that the Petitioner "won third place in [a] 
Student Paper ComP,etition," all of the submitted articles date from 2017 and 2018, most of them either 
published directly bOor sourced ~ress releases. (The Petitioner acknowledges that several 
such articles were "re-shared" from L_Js website.) This narrow time window does not indicate a 
sustained history of media attention to his work, either before or after his time ac=]_. Because this media 
attention is almost entirely limited to the Petitioner's work aO it bears noting that the Petitioner does 
not show that these projects received more media attention than other computer science projects atD 
Most of these articles do not mention the Petitioner's name, and therefore neither reflect nor contribute to 
the Petitioner's acclaim in the field. Others list the Petitioner among the coauthors of various papers but 
do not single him out or indicate that the entire research team stands at the top of the field. Thus,D 
has not publicly highlighted the Petitioner's contributions to the research that took place there in 2017 
and 2018. 
Regarding the Director's reference to "an article," the one published article that devotes significant 
attention to the Petitioner appeared in the 2018 issue of IEEE Si nal Processin Ma 
The article begins by stating that.__ _______________ ~------...--,-......, I t' and profiles three exam les. One of those three exam les was 
development of "a system that allows I I to.__ ____ ----,---------.----____. 
from tens of meters away," so that specific ite!lls can be quickly located.___~-------' The article 
includes several quotations from the Petitioner, whom the article identifies as the lead researcher on the 
project. The article does not indicate that the various projects have already had a significant impact, 
thereby winning acclaim for the main participants. Rather, it describes the various projects as presenting 
"promising" "possibilities." The article does not indicate that the Petitioner is an acclaimed researcher, 
and the Petitioner has not shown that the publication of the article has contributed substantially to his 
recognition in the field. 
In all, the articles in the record indicate that the media attention owes more to the reputation and acclaim 
ofc=] as an institution, rather than to the Petitioner as an individual. Consistent with this conclusion, 
the record contains no articles about the Petitioner's subsequent work atl I 
4 
Letters in the record likewise focus on the Petitioner's work at~ (and, in some instance, on the 
Petitioner's earlier undergraduate research atl I which likewise involved I O I D-These letters are not without weight, and they support the conclusion that the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance. But, while the letters discuss the practical importance of 
certain contributions by the Petitioner, they do not establish that the Petitioner's work has led to him being 
nationally or internationally acclaimed as a researcher at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner asserts that his published articles are among the "most extensively cited" in the field, being 
"among the top 1 % among Computer Science articles." At the time of filing, the Petitioner documented 
18 articles published in journals or conference proceedings. According to a 2019 table from Clarivate 
Analytics that the Petitioner submitted, 1 % of computer science articles published in 2017 had been cited 
27 or more times. One of the Petitioner's 2017 articles had 30 citations at the time of filing. None of the 
Petitioner's other articles surpassed the 1 % threshold at the time of filing. As such, the submitted evidence 
indicates some degree of influence for certain projects, but does not establish a pattern of heavy citation 
consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations demand. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Rather, his work at a 
prestigious institution attracted a certain level of publicity that does not appear to have followed him 
in his subsequent career. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13189490 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chemistry researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously worked as a researcher at universities in India and Korea, and a pharmaceutical 
company in India. At the time he filed the petition, the Petitioner was a research associate at the University 
of1 ~ The Petitioner asserted his intention to remain at~ permanently if the 
petition were approved, but he did not submit evidence from D confirming that the rmplyer 
considered the position to be permanent. Six months after filing the petition, the Petitioner left for 
a position as a postdoctoral research instructor at the University otl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criterion, numbered (v). 
Upon review of the record, as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criteria numbered (iv) and (vi), but not (v). 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that, while the Petitioner submitted detailed descriptions of his 
original contributions, the record does not establish the major significance of those contributions. 
Therefore, we will concentrate here on the question of major significance, rather than on the sometimes 
highly technical details of the Petitioner's contributions. We note that those technical details derive 
2 
largely from a series of letters in the record. The Petitioner asserts that these letters are of independent 
origin, but several of them are formatted in a manner similar or identical to the lengthy introductory letter 
submitted with the petition, sometimes with the same wording. For instance, five of the letters include 
the following section headings relating to the Petitioner's work atOUniversity: 
Project #1: .... I ___ _.I analogues with potent antiD activity 
Project #2: Synthesis of compounds as------.--r'signaling blockers for the 
treatment of Rheumatoid arthritis and inflammation 
Project #3: Discovery of a novel series o_,_J ----,,--...,,....--_.I derivatives a~ I I inhibitors ~---~ 
In four instances, the word "Rheumatoid" is arbitrarily capitalized, as above. Five letters also include the 
same misspelling, indicating that the Petitioner "published his findings in the Bullet [sic] of the Korean 
Chemical Society." The similarities in language strongly suggest a common author, whom we can infer 
to be the Petitioner himself. 1 
The Petitioner highlights five points on appeal, some more specific than others: 
• Petitioner has an outstanding record of peer review activity, indicating that he is 
widely recognized to have made significant contributions to his field; 
• Petitioner's research work has resulted in three patents, one of which has been 
assigned to a third-party company for commercial development; 
• Petitioner developed the first and only synthetic inhibitor l~~~I the compound 
I I which is sold by biotechnology companies around the world for use in 
scientific research; 
• Petitioner's publications have been highly cited by others working in his field; 
• Nine of Petitioner's publications were featured inL I which had the stated 
goal of highlighting the most important and innovative reactions developed in organic, 
bioorganic, medicinal, inorganic, and organometallic chemistry. 
Here, we address each of these points. 
Peer review: The Petitioner does not submit documentary evidence- existing separately from the petition 
-to show that the journals' publishers limit peer review activity to those who are "widely recognized to 
have made significant contributions." 
Patents: The Petitioner states: "The fact that [the Petitioner] has two granted patents is unequivocal 
evidence of the major significance of his original scientific research contributions." The issuance of a 
patent, however, attests to the originality of a particular invention or innovation, rather than its 
significance. 
1 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
3 
The president of a biochemical company that sellsl I to research laboratories states that 
the P~' s "research is of significant interest ... because he has demonstrated ... the synthesis of a 
novel L_Jinhibitor that is both more effective than conventional~ inhibitors and easier to 
manufacture, greatly impacting healthcare, biomedical research, and the economy of the United States." 
The Petitioner provides no direct evidence of the extent of this claimed impact. The very general claims 
quoted above have minimal probative value. 
The journal article which identified! I as an0inhibitor has 17 credited authors at eight 
universities in two countries. The Petitioner is the tenth-named author of the article; the first-named 
author did not work at the same university as the Petitioner. Given the size and diffusion of the 
researchers, it is reasonable to seek more details about the Petitioner's specific contributions to the project. 
A co-author asserts that the Petitioner "discoveredl I," but does not elaborate. This same co-author 
asserts thatl l"cures rheumatoid arthritis," but the record does not include objective documentary 
evidence to confirm this claim. Without supporting evidence, a claim of this magnitude has no weight 
and raises questions about the overall credibility of the letter in which it appeared. 
Another letter includes the claim that the Petitioner actuall~ developed I l but the writer of that 
letter, a vendor, claims no first-hand knowledge o~.._ __ __,'s discovery. The article co-authore~ by thl 
Petitioner indicates that some of the authors "screened our in-house chemical library and identifie 0" indicating the compound was already present but undiscovered. 
The record establishes the commercial availability 0~ I, but the record lacks objective, independent 
evidence that would establish the significance of the Petitioner's work with the compound relative to the 
field as a whole. Letters from individual researchers who use I I do not necessarily represent a 
consensus within the field. The Petitioner has established tha~ I is useful for certain applications, 
but usefulness is not synonymous with major significance. 
Citations: Published articles are a key avenue by which a researcher may disseminate original 
contributions. Not every such contribution, however, is of major significance in the field. It is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish the significance of his published work. 
The Petitioner documents citation of his published work, and asserts that these citations demonstrate 
its influence and significance. The Director acknowledged the citations but declined to consider them 
in the context of determining the significance of the Petitioner's contributions because "the regulations 
contain a separate criterion regarding the authorship of scholarly articles." We disagree with the 
Director's reasoning here, because the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) deals only with the 
Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles; the sign[ficance of those articles is properly considered 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Heavy citation of a particular article is one way to measure that article's 
impact and influence. 2 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www. 
uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
But it cannot suffice simply to show that citation has occurred. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that 
the citation rate of his published work is significantly high when compared with other published work in 
the same area. Here, the Petitioner has shown the number of citations his work has received, but he has 
not provided any basis for comparison with other work in the same area of research. 
The Petitioner has made original scientific contributions, but has not shown them to be of major 
significance in the field. 
Beyond the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Director concluded that the Petitioner has 
not shown that his entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States 
as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. The Director must explain in writing the specific 
reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, the Director simply stated: "it has not been 
established that the beneficiary's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States," 
without explaining the specific reasons for reaching that conclusion. If this issue were the only basis 
for denial of the petition, then the lack of an explanation would have raised significant issues. But the 
above discussion precludes approval of the petition and a detailed discussion of the prospective benefit 
issue cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has provided evidence of a productive career, and shown 
that some of his work is useful to others in his field. He has not, however, established a level of 
recognition of his work indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrating a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The objective 
documentation in the record does not support the level of recognition and influence claimed in letters 
written specifically to support the petition, several of which show evidence of common authorship or 
at least reliance on a common template. The Petitioner's academic positions at, and since, the time of 
filing appear to amount to postdoctoral training, and do not reflect the demand for his services that 
one would expect from an acclaimed researcher at the top of the field. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 13951115 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer software and hardware development business, seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary, a software development engineering manager, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high 
salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Although we do not concur with the Director's decision regarding the high salary criterion, the record 
reflects that the Beneficiary satisfies three of the evidentiary criteria. 1 As such, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 2 
1 The Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for the high salary criterion based on his current salary as a software 
development engineering manager. However, the Petitioner compared the Beneficiary's salary to the salaries of non­
managerial software developers and did not establish that the Beneficiary commands a high salaiy in relation to other 
managerial software developers. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See 
Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding 
salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. 
Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. 
Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim, 3 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the 
Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received a bachelor of engineering from the University of I I in 2000 and a master of science froml I University in 2004. The Petitioner provided 
its original job offer letter showing the Beneficiary's starting position as an iOS location tech software 
engineer in January 2012 and another letter confirming the Beneficiary's promotion to a senior 
mana er in 2017. According to the Beneficiary's curriculum vitae, he has also been employed with 
as a senior engineer since August 2007. In addition, he worked as a software engineer 
at.__ __ ~---~---------' from 2004 -2007 and held research assistant positions while 
attending .__ ___ ,___,niversity from 2000 -2004. Besides the Beneficiary's authorship of a few 
papers over 15 years ago, the filing concentrates almost entirely on the Beneficiary's employment with 
the Petitioner for the past 6 years. The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As discussed further below, the Beneficiary made contributions while working for the Petitioner and 
simultaneously performed in a critical role. In describing and summarizing the Beneficiary's 
contributions and roles, I I senior director of sensitivity and connectivity for the 
Petitioner, stated: 
The Positioning team [ for the Petitioner] was already well aware of the challenges 
plaguing 9-1-1. Starting in 2014, [the Beneficiary] led the development and 
commercialization of [the Petitioner's] I I 
technology.I luses on-device algorithms and sensors to compute an emergency 
caller's location on the user's device more accurately, quickly, and reliably than 
traditional carrier-network-centric approaches. [The Beneficiary] also worked closely 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of"sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
with the wireless carriers to demonstrate the superiority ofl I over the carriers' 
own solutions, and in 2015, a mere few months after the FCC's [Federal 
Communications Commission] order, launched I I in the United States .... 
Through 2016 and 2017, [the Beneficiar and his team were instrumental in enablin 
the successful launches ~o~f ====-.=======;- the first mass-market I II I and....._ ______ __,the first 
mass-market connect1v1ty. In addition to bringing the 
benefits of DI I, and to these products, [the Beneficiary] 
and his team also contributed to [the Petitioner's..______.feature, which allows callers to 
reach emergency services and share their location with public safety and designated 
emergency contacts, even when they are unable to physically dial an emergency 
number .... 
In 2018, [the Beneficiary's] team launched~-----------_, to bring 
the benefit of [the Petitioner's JI I technology to emergency callers in the United ~m, New Zealand, and 5 other European countries. Today,c=J is available on 
L___J andl I in over 16 countries and provides life-saving location data for 
over 200,000 calls daily. 
In that same year, [the Beneficiary's] team also developed! 0 , I I which uses a Next Generation 9-1-1 data pipeline froml l a New York 
startup, to make accurate I ldata available quickly and securely to the 9-1-1 center 
handling the call .... 
Also in 2018, [the Beneficiary] and his team worked closely witH LI land 
17teams at [the Petitioner to define thel I experience on thel I ~ When enabled, the can detect a "hard fall" and automatically call 
emergency services. Based on~------~ team's inputsJ I Watch is 
designed to play an automated "voice over" message informing the 9-1-1-
telecommuter of the nature of the call and the caller's precise location .... 
[The Beneficiar leveraged his deep knowledge of I l emergency 
services, and · · structure and protocols, to devise a novel mechanism to 
convey the precis _~-~ location from a user's device to the network even before an 
emergency call is connected. This technique, called~------------.,,..........-­
enables carrier networks to use the caller's exact location, instead of the remote location 
4 
of a connected cell-tower, to instantaneously route the call to the relevant 9-1-1 
center .... 
[The Beneficiary] has also tirelessly championed the use of precise! I location to 
route emergency text messages, often referred to as I I, to the 
appropriate 9-1-1 center. This capability is particularly relevant to the Accessibility 
community and to users who might be unable to verbally request assistance .... 
The record also includes recommendation letters from others echoing I ~ s praises of the 
Beneficiary's achievements for the Petitioner. For instance,! I director of regulatory 
engineering and technology devllopmenyorl I detailed that the Beneficiary "was critical in the 
development of [ the Petitioner's] technology," and "[ the Beneficiary] and his team were also 
able to dramatically reduce the typical response time for many emergency location sessions to under 
10 seconds." Further,! I director of technology and compliance for indicated ~e Beneficiary] led the team that worked closely withl b to prepare~----~ 
L___J which allows carrier networks to use the caller's exact location to determine the most relevant 
9-1-1 call center to route the user's voice call or text messa e to." In addition, ~------~ 
CEO for theL_ ______________ r----,..J stated that "[the Beneficiary] and his 
team worked with the national U.S. carriers to make~-~ available on [the Petitioner's] devices 
starting in 2015, and have since proven its ability to meet, and in some cases exceed, the 2021 
horizontal location requirements in independent industry tests." 
Although the letters praise the Beneficiary's recent work, the Petitioner did not establish how they 
demonstrate the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The letters focus on the Beneficiary's immediate work without 
showing that the Beneficiary has enjoyed a career of acclaimed work in the field, placing him among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record is void of the Beneficiary's professional accomplishments with any 
other employers even though his employment in the field spans approximately 20 years. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that 
the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected 
in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that 
required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Likewise, the Petitioner also provided documentation showing: the Beneficiary and others listed as 
inventors on nine patents from 2016-2019, the Beneficiary's attendance at al[ ~ 
~ I Forum 2019, and a request for a presentation at the O • 
I.working Group Australia New Zealand in 2017. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary garnered significant or widespread attention from these events or 
explain how they reflect the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, indicating an 
individual in the upper echelon of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3). The Petitioner, for example, did not compare the Beneficiary's patents to 
others in the field or show how attending a single forum or speaking at a solo working group 
establishes the recognition of the Beneficiary as among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
Regarding his publication history, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary 
authored five papers during his graduate work atl I University from 2003 -2004. However, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's publication record of five articles over 15 
years ago is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international 
acclaim. 5 The Petitioner did not submit evidence showing the significance of the Beneficiary's 
authorships or how his overall publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of 
the field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has 
a consistent history of publishing articles in prestigious journals, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's publications reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized over a 
period of time. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to 
Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. The Petitioner submitted evidence indicating that others have cited to 
his articles 22 times. While the citation of the Beneficiary's written work shows that a few have 
noticed it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that the limited citations to the Beneficiary's work represent attention at a level consistent with being 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For the 
reasons discussed below, the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary received! l's "President Award for Commitment to I !Industry" in 2019. Besides letters explaining wh~ I bestowed the award upon the 
Beneficiary, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the recognition or significance of the recent award on 
a national or international scale, contributing to the Beneficiary's sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Further, the Petitioner did 
not establish that the Beneficiary's immediate receipt of a single award reflects a career of acclaimed 
work in the field, placing him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, as previously indicated, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary commanded 
earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's wages are 
tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the Beneficiary's 
salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based 
on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not document the Beneficiary's high earnings from other employers, 
showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13656450 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -first on the Petitioner's motion, and later treating 
an untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v)(B)(J). Both times, the 
Director again denied the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that she "has obtained the highest level of fame in her native I I and 
international recognition in pop singing." After performing on the televised Geostar competition 
program, the Petitioner worked as a "specialist" afl O Is Ministry of Culture; the record provides few 
details about this employment, which she mentioned in interviews in 2009 and 2014. The Petitioner also 
appeared in the film I but the record does not indicate that she has continued to pursue acting 
work. The Petitioner has spent an increasing amount of time in the United States since 2015. Her most 
recent entry was in 2017 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure. She later changed status to an O-1B 
nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability in the arts, through! a petitiln filed b 
I IThroughl I the Petitioner operates a studio, where she provides voice lessons to 
children. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (i) and (iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other claimed criteria. 
2 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has also submitted published material that satisfies 
criterion (iii). Because the Petitioner has met at least three of the regulatory criteria, we will not 
discuss the individual criteria in detail. Instead, we will evaluate all of the submitted evidence and 
determine whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The Director gave insufficient weight to some of the submitted evidence, such as media coverage. The 
Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of multiple interviews, but largely discounted that 
evidence because many of the interviews were not about the Petitioner's work in the field as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). This is a valid criticism, but looking at the brorer picture, thel I 
media's interest in the Petitioner's personal life is, itself: some indication of the public's interest 
in the Petitioner. 
Overall, the evidence is of mixed caliber. The record contains evidence of a high-profile career, including 
television appearances and significant awards. But there are also gaps in the evidence. The record 
contains occasional references to recordings by the Petitioner, but the record does not identify any 
released recordings or contain any evidence of their commercial release. The president of a recording 
studio praises the Petitioner as a popular entertainer, but does not say that the Petitioner has actually 
recorded at that studio. It is possible to achieve acclaim as a singer without releasing hit records, but the 
burden is on the Petitioner to show how she has done so. Likewise, the record contains copies of contracts 
that establish how much the Petitioner earned for specific projects, but the Petitioner has not submitted 
objective, documentary evidence to allow a meaningful comparison between her earnings and those of 
others in the field. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner had a successful career id I It does not, however, establish 
that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim up to, and beyond, the time of filing. The Petitioner's 
initial filing included copies of 21 contracts dated between July 2010 and June 2016; the most recent 
contract was dated more than two years before the petition's filing date in July 2018. The Petitioner 
appeared onl l's version ofl lin 2016, but the record does not document any 
comparably high-profile activity since then. I I media continued to interview her after she 
relocated to the United States, but in those interviews, she discusses staying at home with a new child, 
teaching singing lessons, and singing at corporate events. 
In a translated September 2015 interview, conducted shortly after a two-month visit to the United States, 
the Petitioner stated: 'I I is too small, you can become popular with one clip and one song. In 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
America everyone sings . . . . After [ a television appearance in I ~' when I was walking in the 
streets everyone asked me [for] autographs and it is not happening in [the] USA." This interview took 
place almost three years before the petition's filing date, and the record does not show that her career 
gained momentum afterward. In the same interview, the Petitioner stated that, in the United States, 
"[t]here are lots of singers who ha[ve] no job and it's difficult to find a job in a restaurant too." The 
Petitioner stated that she found work performing in I I lounges. Promotional fliers 
reproduced in the record corroborate this public statement, advertising her performances at small venues 
such as restaurants, coffee shops, and cultural centers. 
Consistent with the above quotation, the record does not show that the Petitioner has earned sustained 
national acclaim in the United States. Rather, her recognition in the United States appears to be largely 
confined to thd I community i~ I The Petitioner has not documented any U.S. media 
coverage apart from local, Russian-language media. One such article, from 2017, discussed the 
Petitioner's achievements between 2001 and 2015 and stated that "[h ]er dream is to conquer I I 
. . . . Meanwhile she shares her mastery withl I children, participates in charity concerts, and 
recently she performed at [a] I I festival." 
The record indicates that the Petitioner sang at the opening of a fashion show in I 11 I 
media reported that the Petitioner "performed atl J" but photographs from the 
event show the legend "Couture Fashion Week." The Petitioner has not established that the two names 
correspond to the same event, or that one is a part of the other. The Petitioner tol~ I interviewers 
that her performance generated "a huge response," but the record does not include any U.S. media 
coverage of the event. The Petitioner told an interviewer that she appeared because the art director for 
the event is froml I Other recent performances have been tied tol I cultural events. Some 
of these events have been at well-known locations, such as thel I D but the Petitioner has not shown that these appearances generated attention at a level consistent with 
national or international acclaim, or that her participation was highlighted either before or after the events. 
A printout from thd l's website discusses a performance by thd lbut the 
Petitioner's name does not appear in the article. Because these events took place in the United States, it 
is entirely appropriate to judge the events by the standards of the U.S. entertainment industry. 
In light of these facts, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner was at the very top of her field at the time 
of filing, and remains there now.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals currently at the 
top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or who continue to 
command some degree of media attention on the strength of past achievements. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work indicative of the 
2 A petitioner must meet all eligibility criteria at the time of filing, and must continue to meet them throughout the 
adjudication of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). To this extent, it is appropriate to consider a petitioner's activities 
after the petition's filing date. Those activities, by themselves, cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date. but they 
directly bear on the question of whether a given petitioner continues to be eligible. 
4 
required sustained national or international acclaim, or which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11198670 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business development specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, the Petitioner did not establish his intent to continue to 
work in his area of extraordinary ability in the United States and that his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as vice president and general manager at ._I _____ ___.I and 
vice president atl I 
A. Background 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Under his "Analysis of Criteria" in his decision, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner met four of the claimed evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
While the Director briefly stated under his "Final Merits Determination" that "[t]he petitioner provided 
evidence to indicate the beneficiary's high-level experience withc=]and.__ ______ ___,..,' the 
record does not show that the Petitioner garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise through extensive documentation, 
demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 1 
Instead, the Director focused on the Petitioner's intent to continue to work in his area of expertise in 
the United States and whether he would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. In 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
addition, the Director did not explain how having "high-level experience" establishes sustained 
national or international acclaim and recognition of his achievements in the field, consistent with this 
highly restrictive classification. 
On appeal, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below to decide whether the Petitioner demonstrated eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. If the Petitioner shows his extraordinary ability in business, 
then we will determine whether the Petitioner established that he will continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability in the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and whether he will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
According to his initial cover letter, the Petitioner "holds a degree in Economy Management and a 
degree in Computer Application Software from the University I I' 
and "is a graduate ofl I their Advanced Management Program."4 In the past ~s, the Petitioner has been employed at various companies, such as I I 
L__J(senior consultant and consultant manager), I I 
~==-- (senior mana er, I l<director),LJ 
Lr---------------..,.._ ___ __,(associate partner artner and mana in artner 
( chief executive officer), 'i========.-----------' .-------'----------.----------~ resident and strate ic consultant (global vice president), 
L.---------------~-----r------'-'--'--"=.......,.==e=n-=-;t and managing partner), 
~-----7- _____ ___,(president)....,.,.,_ ___ ~--~- ....... (senior vice president), 
(vice president and general manager o service . s indicated above, the .__ _____ ___, 
Director determined that the Petitioner received some press coverage, participated as a judge, 
performed in leading roles, and earned a high salary. The record, however, does not demonstrate that 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner did not provide evidence of his degrees to support his claims. 
5 See "Job History Summary" prepared by the Petitioner and a screenshot from bloomberg.com entitled, "Executive Profile 
& Biography." 
3 
his personal and professional achievements rise to a level of "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to media coverage, the Petitioner offered two items reflecting published material about 
him in 2011 and 2012. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage, 
without any media reporting about him since 2012, is consistent with the sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Although he offered an additional six articles where he is mentioned as being one of the 
attendees at meetings, quoted on various business topics, and interviewed as a spokesperson of 
companies, the Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of 
success with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting of 
8 articles in a 15-year span reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to 
present more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Regarding the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.6 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as a judge for the 201 ] I Research 
Award and the 2018 I !Analysis Report. However, the Petitioner did 
not establish that these two occasions, seven years apart, contribute to a finding that he has a career of 
acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did not show, for example, 
how his experience judging these two contests compares to others at the very top of the field. The 
Petitioner did not establish that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his judging 
activities. While he provided some media accounts announcing the upcoming events, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the prestigious nature of the occasions or that he garnered any acclaim from these 
judging instances. 
Serving as a member of a jury does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary 
ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Cf, Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). Without 
evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history 
of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that 
his judging experience places him among that upper echelon of his field and that small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30704. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
As it pertains to his roles, as mentioned above, the Petitioner served in various executive capacities 
for several companies for the past 25 years. However, the Petitioner presented documentation relating 
to his roles for only three businesses ~ .... ___ _.l I I andl O I The record 
lacks evidence documenting his professional career with the other companies, nor does it demonstrate 
whether his employment resulted in attention or recognition from the field, reflecting a career of 
acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that 
required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
While he submitted job confirmation letters, none of them indicate any of the Petitioner's national or 
international acclaim based on his professional achievements at the companies. For instance,LJ I I former general manager atl I claimed that the Petitioner's role in "revenues 
and headcount ... was more widey recognized withinD' than by the overall field. FurtherJ I I I COO at I stated that the Petitioner "has valiantly led our team to victory 
surpassing our business target for 8 consecutive quarters" but did not explain how the greater field 
recognized his accomplishments. Similarly, the record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence 
of his receipt of the "FYI 71 I Gold Club award" for "extraordinary performance, 
transformation and contributions toward achieving key company objectives"; however, the Petitioner 
did not show any acknowledgment of the award by the field outside of the company. In addition, I !chairman and CEO o~ l indicated that he "appreciated [the Petitioner's] 
selfless contribution to help our team in the transformation, win in the market strongly, and think 
differently about the competition and ways of success" without demonstrating how the Petitioner's 
personal and professional traits resulted in broad national or international attention. 
The letters do not discuss whether any of the Petitioner's professional achievements at the businesses 
garnered him national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the 
letters do not show the Petitioner's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with 
being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although he documented his income froml l I land._! ____ __., 
the Petitioner did not establish that he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages 
are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not demonstrate, for example, how his salary compared 
to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings 
separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
5 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 7 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act and 
whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A )(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter 
ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516. n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11876135 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a racehorse jockey, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is thd I in the history of Venezuelan horse riding to reacrl._ ___ _. 
.__ __ ___.I" An online article in the record indicates that the Petitioner "won approximately 2,200 races" 
before relocating to the United States. The Petitioner states that he "was among the contenders to ride I l .. at the 20151 I." At the time of filing in December 2016, the Petitioner 
was riding in California, primarily atl O I He then briefly worked in New 
Mexico and then Minnesota. When he filed the appeal in 2020, he worked atl I in I I Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
I (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two criteria numbered (vii) and (ix). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only the 
criterion relating to salary or other remuneration. We will address the other criteria below. 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has not specifically explained how he purports to have 
satisfied the various evidentiary criteria. Instead, the Petitioner identifies each criterion and lists the 
evidentiary exhibits which, he asserts, relate to that criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes at some 
2 
length from the Director's decision, but instead of addressing that determination directly, the Petitioner 
simply identifies evidentiary exhibits. The relationship between those exhibits and the claimed criteria 
is more straightforward in some instances than in others. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The Petitioner cannot meet his burden of proof simply by listing 
record materials without explaining their relevance. 
Furthermore, the appeal includes information and evidence about the Petitioner's activities after he 
filed the petition in December 2016. We will not discuss this evidence in any detail as the Petitioner 
must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1).1 
Subsequent developments cannot retroactively establish eligibility. See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'I Comm'r 1971). Furthermore, the purpose of an appeal is to establish errors of fact 
or law in the underlying decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Submission of entirely new claims 
and evidence on appeal does not show that the Director made an incorrect decision based on the 
evidence available to the Director at the time of that decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As of September 2016, the Petitioner was thel l"Meet Leader" at~-------~ 
having wonl I races. The table of "Meet Leaders," ranking jockeys in order of number of 
races won, lists 57 jockeys, 45 of whom had won at least one race. The table also appears to indicate that 
349 races took place at that one racetrack up to that point in the 2016 season. 
Other materials in the record list every race in which the Petitioner has participated, and indicate where 
he finished in each race, but the Petitioner has not shown that he won nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards in these races. Given the hundreds of races per year at each of countless 
racetracks, there is no presumption that the winner of any given race wins a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. 
The Petitioner has not established that he received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submits a photocopy of his jockey license, issued by the California Horse Racing Board, 
and various information about his riding career. This evidence shows that the Petitioner has a jockey 
license, but it does not establish that he is a member of any identified association. The California Horse 
1 The same regulation requires each petitioner to remain eligible for the benefit sought throughout the adjudication of the 
petition. In this respect, it is relevant that a 2020 printout of the Petitioner's statistics shows a significant decline in the 
Petitioner's annual winnings after 2016. 
3 
Racing Board is a government licensing authority, not an association of jockeys, and even then the 
Petitioner has not established that the Board requires outstanding achievement as a condition for Ii censure. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents new information about his licensure in other states and his membership 
in the Jockeys' Guild, which he did not previously claim. The Guild's attorney states in a letter that the 
Petitioner has been a member since 2014, but the Petitioner did not claim Guild membership prior to the 
appeal. Therefore, the Director cannot have erred by failing to consider that membership. Furthermore, 
the attorney does not specify the Guild's membership requirements. The record describes the Guild as, 
essentially, a trade union that advocates for the interests of jockeys, rather than an association with highly 
restrictive membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits several articles from various publications, but many of these articles are not about 
him; they mention him briefly, or not at all, and the Petitioner does not show that they appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Other articles, submitted later, were 
published after the 2016 filing date and therefore cannot show eligibility at the time of filing. 
The initial submission includes two articles about the Petitioner: A 12016 piece on the website of I I Park called the Petitioner "an overnight sensation" who ~----~-----.---. 
and a 2016 article from the Paulick Re art statin that the Petitioner 
~-~I· The Petitioner has not established that either of these stories appeared in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner submits photographs showing him racing horses, speaking to a television reporter, and 
posing with journalists and others. The photographs have unattributed captions, but the Petitioner does 
not show where the photographs were pub I ished, or whether the captions were pub I ished along with them. 
One photograph shows a copyright notice from Newsday inl I but a copyright notice 
is not evidence of publication. The record also does not provide further information about the broadcast, 
if any, of the Petitioner's interview with the aforementioned television reporter. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a Paulick Report article from 2015. He does not explain why he did 
not submit the article earlier, nor does he establish that the Paulick Report constitutes a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the submitted evidence satisfies the regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
4 
The Director concluded, without comment, that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
In claiming to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner cited various exhibits without further elaboration or 
explanation. Some of the cited documents are website printouts of the Petitioner's "Jockey Profile" and 
a table of "2016 Meet Leaders" at thel !racetrack. These pages are informational listings of 
statistics rather than artistic displays or exhibitions. 
The other specified exhibits are photographs of the Petitioner, taken after (and in some cases during) horse 
races. A photograph is not inherently an artistic display or exhibition. Some of the photographs appear 
to have been taken by news photographers, for informational rather than artistic purposes. 
The exhibits all establish that the Petitioner has participated in horse races, but the Petitioner has not 
established that a horse race is an artistic display or exhibition. 
In the absence of any explanation as to how the specified exhibits constitute evidence of the display of 
the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner points to 21 exhibits in the record, submitted at various times during the proceeding, but 
does not explain how those materials satisfy the criterion. The Petitioner does not identify the 
organizations or establishments; demonstrate that they have distinguished reputations; or specify how his 
role for each was either leading or critical. 
The Petitioner cannot meet his burden of proof merely by submitting a number of documents and 
asserting, without explanation, that they establish a leading or critical role for unidentified organizations 
and establishments. It is not the Director's responsibility to fill in gaps in the record, for instance by 
inferring that the Petitioner must have performed in a critical role for a particular racetrack complex by 
winning a number of races there. 
The Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
5 
has not shown that he has earned the required sustained national or international acclaim or that his 
achievements are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has had some success as a jockey, but does not show that he has achieved sustained national 
or international acclaim, or that he has reached the top of his field. For example, he was the[] "Meet 
Leader" for races held arl O l in 2016, but he does not explain how this statistic 
is relevant at the wider national or international level. The Petitioner asserts that he had earned acclaim 
during his earlier career in Venezuela, but he submits no contemporaneous, documentary evidence to 
support this assertion. Some articles mention the Petitioner's earlier work in Venezuela, and letters from 
individuals who worked with him in Venezuela describe his skill in general terms, but the direct evidence 
all relates to his work in the United States. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11244063 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a biopharmaceutical manufacturer , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that it has employed the Beneficiary "as a Senior SAP [ systems, applications, 
and products] Planning Specialist" since 2018. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two criteria, leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, 
for the reasons discussed later, we do not agree with the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled the high 
salary criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for four additional 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that the alien received prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
Petitioner references a letter from I I general manager at I I 
....._ _____________ , who stated: 
With the contribution of his efforts, the I l received national level highest 
fuel efficiency award from ASRTU (Member of International Association APTA­
American Public Transport Association). Furthermore, [the Beneficiary] received the 
highest kilometer per litre in fuel efficiency achievement award from the Transport 
1 See Petitioner's initial cover letter. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
Minister (US Secretary equivalent at the state level) at the Government of~I ---~ 
[The Beneficiary] also received a national level high mileage award for excellent 
maintenance and operation of vehicles by I L an 
international corporation acclaimed as one of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the 
world. 
The record contains "About us" screenshots from I including a section entitled, 'The Details 
of AW ARDS Received by this Corporation are Given Below," listing awards received byl I 
from "ASRTU" during 1991-2015. The screenshots, however, do not credit or mention the 
Beneficiary receiving any awards, as claimed byl I The evidence submitted by the 
Petitioner does not show that the Beneficiary received the "national level highest foel efficiency award 
from ASR TU" or the "the highest kilometer per litre in fuel efficiency achievement award from the 
Transport Minister." In fact, as indicated, it appears thaU !received various vehicle performance 
awards rather than the Beneficiary. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides 
that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's 
receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any corroborating evidence 
from "ASRTU" or "Transport Minister" evidencing the Beneficiary's receipt. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate how the I I screenshots establish the national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field for either of these awards. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
the national or international significance of the awards in the field. 
In addition, the record contains an ALL "High Mileage A ward" certificate "for excellent maintenance 
and operation of [ALL] vehicle" awarded to the Beneficiary. Further, the record reflects screenshots 
from I I entitled, "Latest [ALL] News," highlighting various news events of the 
company. Although the certificate indicates that the Beneficiary received the award, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the national or international recognition of the award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner did not establish how the screenshots, which make no mention of the "High Mileage 
Award," shows that it is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any independent, objective 
evidence showing the significance of the award in the field beyond ALL. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues eligibility this criterion based on the Beneficiary's membership with the 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). In order to satisfy this criterion, the petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
3 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.4 
The Petitioner submitted screenshots from asme.org indicating promotional material for ASME. 
Further, the Petitioner presented ASME's "Constitution and By-Laws," showing various degrees of 
membership, such as corporate membership, honorary member, fellow, member, affiliate, and student 
member. Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded 
to the alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 5 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a certificate 
reflecting the Beneficiary's "Member" status with ASME. According to the bylaws, "[a] member, at 
the time of admission or advancement to that grade, shall have attainments amounting to the equivalent 
of at least eight years of engineering experience." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
attaining a certain level of experience is tantamount to outstanding achievements as required by this 
regulatory criterion. Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the alien's membership in the 
associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, 
instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience 
in a particular field. 6 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that ASME' s member requirement of 
professional experience rises to the level of outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that recognized national or international experts judge 
outstanding achievements, as applicants are eligible for membership as long as they meet the minimum 
requirements of experience. Moreover, although the bylaws state that "[a]ll procedures relating to 
admissions to and promotions in membership ... shall be administered by the Membership staff in 
accordance with the policy set by the Board of Governors," the Petitioner did not establish that the 
"Membership staff' is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory criterion because: 
[The Beneficiary] participated in the.__ _________ ___. Forum-knowledge 
session on SAP~ I is a publically [sic] traded multinational organization with 
distinguished reputation in the field. [The Beneficiary] is regularly responsible for 
reviewing and assessing the work of others. He reviewed and assessed SAP PM 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 Id. 
4 
Interface framework to deliver enterprise information and Business Process 
Configuration manual. 
The record contains a "Certificate of Participation" from I I indicating that the Beneficiary 
"has participated in the 20061 f Forum-knowledge sessions on SAP." In 
addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots regarding "SAP Application Interface Framework" and 
a "User Manual for SAP Returns and Repair Process Using Return Material Authorization (RMA)." 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that alien has not only been invited to judge 
the work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the 
same of allied field of specialization. 7 The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how the evidence 
shows that the Beneficiary participated as a judge of the work of others. The certificate only indicates 
that the Beneficiary participated in a forum without any indication of judging experience. Moreover, 
the screenshots and user manual do not make any mention of the Beneficiary's involvement in judging 
the work of others, as required by this regulatory criterion. Here, the presented evidence does not 
support the Petitioner's assertions relating to the Beneficiary's judging experience with SAP materials, 
nor did the Petitioner establish that the Beneficiary's "review[ing] and assess[ing]" involved judging 
the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner cites to a portion ofletter from one of its managers,! who stated: .__ _______ ___, 
During [ the Beneficiary's] time at I the company acquired several large 
companies further expanding its worldwide presence. [The Beneficiary] in 2005, 
started implementing SAP solution for entire organizations across 14 countries. Since 
then he has been leading and engaged in various initiatives similar to that used [by the 
Petitioner]. 
The Petitioner, however, did not explain how the letter shows the Beneficiary's participation of the 
work of others. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how implementing a solution, 
framework, or procedure for an organization involves judging the work of others. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the Beneficiary served, either individually or on a panel, as a judge. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the alien's salary or remuneration is 
high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 8 Because the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner established the Beneficiary's eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we will withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
5 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed: 
As one of the leading experts in Business Operations Plant Maintenance, [the 
Beneficiary] has commanded a high salary for his extraordinary expertise and leading 
role. For the fiscal year of 2018, [the Beneficiary] earned around $81,494.40. In 2019, 
[the Beneficiary] anticipates earning over $81,494.40 in salaries and bonus. [The 
Beneficiary'] significantly high remuneration for his services, in relation to others in 
the field farther confirms his extraordinary ability and level of expertise in the field. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide any evidence of the Beneficiary's earnings in 2018, to support 
its assertions. Instead, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a copy of the Beneficiary's 
2017 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, issued by a previous employer,! I I I in I I Illinois and screenshots from careeronestop.org for "Wages for 
Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Workers, All Other inr-===J TX." The Petitioner, however, 
did not identify the Beneficiary's position that he performed ~in 201 7. As such, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the Beneficiary's field. 
In fact, the record reflects thatl I filed a petition for the Beneficiary seeking to employ the 
Beneficiary as an "SAP Consultant."9 Thus, the Petitioner compares the Beneficiary's salary as an 
SAP consultant to that of salaries of installation, maintenance, and repair workers. The Petitioner did 
not establish that the Beneficiary commanded a high salary in relation to other SAP consultants. Both 
precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). We note that in 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a copy of the Beneficiary's 
IRS Form W-2. However, the Petitioner did not offer evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary 
commands a high salary in relation to other senior SAP specialists. 
For these reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills this 
criterion, and we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, judging, and high salary. Although the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we 
need not reach this additional ground. As the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
9 See._l _____ _,I filed on March 26, 2014. 
6 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.10 Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Beneficiary has SAP experience, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11877771 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has served as a sub-editor atl I which owns several 
publications in Nepal, includingDI I a U.S.-based Nepali-language news website, 
has offered the Petitioner a position as a consulting editor. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met all ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the fourth criterion, relating to participation as a 
judge of the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets eight other evidentiary 
criteria. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the seventh criterion, 
pertaining to artistic display, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. We agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others. Below, we will discuss the other eight 
criteria that the Petitioner claims on appeal. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner discusses two claimed awards on appeal. The record directly documents only one of them. 
A certificate froml I shows that the Petitioner won an I I Award u 
. . . for Outstanding Performance in a field of Journalism 2014-15." An official from the awarding 
organization stated that a three-member committee chose the Petitioner "for her outstanding contribution 
through journalism in I I." This statement describes how the Petitioner received the award, 
but it does not show that the award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
The record also indicates that the Nepal Press Union (NPU) gave the Petitioner a.__ _______ ___. 
in 2015. The Petitioner does not include a copy of the letter itself Instead, the Petitioner submits a March 
2016 letter from the NPU' s coordinator, 2 stating: 
.__ ________ ~ is the recognition ... established to honor the excellence and 
outstanding contribution of a journalist in the field of journalism. It was awarded to [the 
Petitioner] ... in the year of 2015. She was selected by an independent sub committee 
led by renowned person[ s] from [the] field of journalism. The reason behind her selection 
is her immense contribution [to the] I ~ journalism as a whole. 
Other NPU officials provided subsequent letters, dated 2019. The general secretary of the NPU states: 
"In recognition of her outstanding journalism, Nepal Press Union had awarded [the Petitioner] with the I I in 2015, which is an award handed over to one journalist annually." The president of the 
NPU states that the organization honored the Petitioner as anl t' in 2015, based on 
"her immense contribution to the field of Nepalese journalism, her vision, and her innovative work on 
establishing! I online portal." The record does not contain sufficient evidence to establish that the 
letter of appreciation is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field 
of journalism. 
Considering that the Petitioner claims to have received journalism awards from journalists, it bears noting 
that the Petitioner does not show that any of her claimed awards received any media coverage at the time 
she received them. This is directly relevant to the question of how widely recognized the awards are. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 The coordinator has the same surname as the Petitioner. The record does not say whether the two are related. 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of Sancharika Samuha, described as "a Forum of women communicators," 
and the Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ). The record does not establish that either organization 
requires outstanding achievements of its members. The president of the FNJ states that the organization 
"is a professional representative body" with "more than 10,000" members, and the record indicates that 
the FNJ is a trade union rather than an exclusive organization with restrictive membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not shown that she is a member of any organization or establishment that requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner initially submitted what she called "articles primarily about [her] work." The Petitioner 
was the author or editor of these articles, but not their subject. Such articles are not about the Petitioner, 
relating to her work. Rather, they are products of the Petitioner's work as a journalist. 
The Petitioner's response to a request for evidence includes several articles about her. Some were 
published after the petition's filing date. These materials cannot establish that the Petitioner met the 
eligibility requirements at the time of filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), and therefore we need 
not discuss further details of these articles. 
The remaining articles ( one from I I and one from I , b do not include the authors' 
names as the regulation requires. The Director stated that they also lacked certified translations, but the 
translator's certification is in the record. 
Of greater concern, the Petitioner does not establish thatl I and I I are professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. A letter from an official of the Press Council Nepal 
states thatl I circulates over 30,000 copies per month, but firovides no context (and cites no 
source) for this figure. The same official states thatl _ is a "credible online news outlet," 
which does not suffice to meet the regulatory standards. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submits copies of articles that she wrote or edited, but the submitted articles are not 
scholarly. A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in a given field. ("Learned" is 
4 
defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship.")3 The Petitioner's articles 
are for a general readership, regarding such topics as a preview of a science fiction film; dressing for cold 
weather; and profiles of women employed in various fields. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner establishes the distinguished reputation of~-------~ but has not shown that 
her role with that publisher is leading or critical. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
alien is ( or was) a leader. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 4 
An assistant general manager at describes the Petitioner's work there: ~---------' 
As a sub-editor, she was responsible for identifying interesting stories, interview 
subjects, collecting data/information and editin . She wrote educational informative 
and entertainin articles 
Through the focus on 
substantive matters, [the Petitioner] was able to able to spread awareness among Nepali 
audience [sic] on these issues. Her lea1ershifi, vision and her focus on creating 
interesting and substantive content helped become the largest selling I I 
magazine in Nepal. ... 
She also came up with creative ideas on supplement issues ofc=J that were immensely 
liked by business outlets and was able to generate significant revenue forl I 
I I 
The editor of~states: 
[The Petitioner] has played an instrumental role in defining, developing and establishing 
I I stronghold a~ong r~aders in and outside Nepal .... [The Petitioner] has been a 
strong pillar in makin he household name it is today . . . . The supplement o±c=J 
is an example of successful planning and implementation which was both content wise 
and commer~ially I successful . . . . She pushed the management towards effective 
digitization o in a country where internet was not yet so widespread. 
These officials credit the Petitioner with contributing to~'s popularity, but do not provide enough 
information to show that the Petitioner's work, in particular, had a significant effect on the magazine's 
success. The Petitioner has not shown how many reporters and sub-editorsc=J employs at any one time, 
or provided an objective basis for comparing the Petitioner's role to that of others at the publication. Also, 
3 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https ://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 
the Petitioner has provided few details about the nature of her work as a sub-editor. Without that 
information, we cannot conclude that she has shown her role to be leading or critical. 
The Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submits two similarly-worded letters signed by other journalists. One letter calls the 
Petitioner "one of the highest paid female journalists in Nepal"; the other uses nearly the same phrase, 
substituting "women" for "female." The letters include no figures or other elaboration. The letters have 
oTer similarities: wejj· foI example, both state that the Petitioner "has proven to be an enormous asset 
to.__ ____ ~~--_, magazine of Nepal." The use of nearly identical language strongly suggests 
a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner herself 5 
Nepal's Minimum Wage Fixation Committee "has fixed minimum remuneration for Nepalijournalist[s] 
at Nrs. 19,200 per month." A letter from that committee states: "Records show that the monthly 
remuneration received by [the Petitioner] as a sub-editor ofc=J and as media adviser/consultant for 
various organizations was over NRS 170,000 in the fiscal year 2015-2016, which is over 8 times the 
minimum salary of a journalist ... and over 4 times ... the average income [ o ]f senior journalists." 
The figure provided for the Petitioner, however, is not the salary of a journalist. Rather, it is the combined 
total of salaries from several employers and clients. Letters in the record indicate that various schools 
and child care facilities each paid the Beneficiary between 40,000 and 55,000 Nepalese rupees per month. 
Most of those letters do not specify the Petitioner's duties as a "media consultant"; one employer indicated 
that the Petitioner's duties included marketing and promotion. 
The record does not show what salary lpays to the Petitioner as a journalist and sub­
editor, but it is evident that the bulk of the Petitioner's monthly income has come from schools rather than 
publishers. 
Because the Petitioner has not shown what she earns for her work as a journalist, she has not shown that 
she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field of journalism. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts that, because she has established a high salary under the previous criterion, she has 
also shown that she satisfies this criterion. This assertion is deficient for several reasons. First, as 
discussed above, she has not established her level of compensation as a journalist; most of her income 
derives from promotional work for employers or clients who are not publishers. 
5 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
G 
Second, the language of this criterion refers specifically to commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner does not claim or establish that the performing arts include journalism. 
Finally, commercial success is not synonymous with high salary. If it were, then there would be no 
reason for two separate regulatory criteria. The commercial success of a given film, recording, or 
performance is separate from the payment received by any one individual participant. 
The Petitioner is not employed in the performing arts and has not submitted box office receipts or sales 
figures to establish commercial success in the performing arts. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the_field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of this remaining criterion cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she works for a large and successful publication and has earned some degree of 
recognition for that work. But she has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of 
sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10319143 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professor of endodontics , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director reopened the 
proceeding , and concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, but did 
not establish that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked atl I University inl I Turkey, since 1989, becoming a foll 
professor in 1998. The Petitioner has served on various committees, atl I University and 
elsewhere. She intends to continue working as an educator and researcher in the United States. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met at least three criteria. Therefore, rather than discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary 
criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below, and evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown 
her eligibility. 
The Petitioner states that she "has been on international scientific committees, respected 
national/international journals, and prestigious committees where she judged the work of her 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
colleagues and made determinations regarding their respective career advancement." The record does 
not establish the significance of these committee positions. The Petitioner asserts, for instance, that 
she "has served on the I I Committee," but the record 
indicates that this committee was convened for one specific conference in Turkey in 2007. Conference 
documentation names the members of six different committees, all of them apparently Turkish. In 
contrast, the named members oftht':I )'s Executive Team represent a range of nationalities. The 
record, therefore, indicates the Petitioner's committee position was a local, ad hoc responsibility. The 
Petitioner does not establish how these committee members were selected, and therefore she has not 
shown that her selection reflects acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that she received "a national honor" in the form of an assignment "as a 
permanent member of the committee which administered the Associate Professor Exams by the 
Council of Higher Education of the Republic of Turkey." The record does not explain the selection 
process or show that the field considers the assignment "a national honor." Furthermore, despite the 
use of the term "Permanent Member" in the English translations, a series of letters from the Council 
over several years describe the committees as 'juries" for specific, named candidates for associate 
professorships. The letters show different committee/jury members for different candidates, indicating 
that there is no permanent, standing committee that continues to exist from one candidate to the next. 
The Petitioner demonstrated her membership on the editorial boards of the Italian Journal of 
Endodontics and the Turkish Clinics Journal of Endodontics, and on a '1 I committee" for the 
Turkish journal. The record does not establish the duties of these positions, or how she was chosen 
for them. The record shows that the Italian journal's Editorial Board has 65 members, and a 2005 
letter from the Turkish Dental Association describes the Turkish journal's I !committee as 
"large." The Petitioner has not shown that these positions are hallmarks of qualifying national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has written about 50 published scholarly articles since 1990. A printout from the 
Google Scholar search engine shows substantial citations for some of those articles, and the Director 
took that evidence into consideration. At the same time, when considering the question of sustained 
acclaim, we cannot ignore that the most recent article with a significant number of citations appeared 
in 2009. The submitted citation data does not establish that the Petitioner continues to produce 
influential research. 
The I l(shapes) of toothl I structures are classified under a system developed by I lin 1984, and bearing his name. The Petitioner contends that one of her most 
significant contributions is being the first endodontist to identify newl I not previously 
identified b~ I The Director took account of heavy citation of some early articles by the 
Petitioner describing these neJ 1 0 11 ess than ten years after the introduction of the I I 
classifications. But the Petitioner has not shown that these modifications to what was still a new 
classification system have contributed to sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to letters in the record. 
Most of these letters are from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner in some capacity, and 
who describe their collaborations with her. Such letters can provide valuable first-hand information 
3 
about the Petitioner's work in detail, but are not evidence of wider recognition. Even then, most of 
the letters describe the Petitioner's work only in vague and general terms. Three of the letters contain 
this exact sentence: "[The Petitioner's] major research projects focus on.__ _______ __. and I I of materials used in the field of endodontic treatments, which is reflected in her 
national and international publications." These similarities strongly suggest common authorship, or 
at least reliance on some kind of template. See Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 
519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when an asylum 
applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). One letter 
containing the shared passage is from a bank president who claims no credentials or expertise in 
dentistry, and who does not explain how he is in a position to evaluate the significance of the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner has established a degree of success and influence in her field, but the record does not 
establish that her reputation and recognition have risen to the required level of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13065567 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned master's de rees in architecture at the University! bnd the University of 
-----.---------~ After workin in the United States for I !Architecture 
from 2009 to 2010, and at rom 2010 to 2013, the Petitioner returned to China 
~a_s_a_c-o-~founder and chief architect a inl I Projects discussed in the record include 
I I(~ [arts exhibition spacdh inl l China: I I 
( a mixed-use development incorporating a shopping mall, apartments, and an office building); and 
I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (i) and (iii), and 
we will not disturb that conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the remaining 
claimed criterion. As explained below, after reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude 
that it does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
2 
I example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner has won awards and earned media coverage 
for her work. The Petitioner asserts that the awards and coverage are, themselves, evidence of the 
significance of her contributions. The regulatory framework calls for converging lines of evidence, 
consistent with the "extensive documentation" required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. For this 
reason, while a given piece of evidence may be relevant to multiple criteria, satisfaction of any one 
criterion does not invariably demonstrate satisfaction of others. 
The Petitioner submits letters from several individuals in the field of architecture, most of whom have 
employed, supervised, or trained the Petitioner. Some of these individuals offer general praise for the 
Petitioner's abilities, and their opinions about particular projects, but they do not specify how her 
contributions have had major siggificance in the field. For example, a professor who taught the Petitioner 
during her graduate studies at I I states that the Petitioner "proved her outstanding ability in 
transforming radical concepts into solid design schemes," and calls I I "a true spectacle," 
describing the structure without explaining its larger significance in the field of architectural design. 
Likewise, a design director who previously worked with the Petitioner ;:ift I states that the Petitioner's 
"design knowledge and ability was [sic] a critical part of the success of multiple important projects ... 
[that] are both highly complex and exceptionally innovative in their design." He identifies the projects 
and states that the Petitioner "more than was able to rise to the task," but does not explain the significance 
of the Petitioner's work on those projects. In a follow-up letter, he cites one claimed example of the 
Petitioner's influence, stating that "thd I Opera House ... , announced in 2019, ... has 
almost the same approach as thd I project, and is also a side proof ofl Is innovative 
impact." He cites no source for the information, and the Petitioner identifies no corroborating 
documentation in the record. Therefore, this assertion carries negligible weight as a purported example 
of the Petitioner's influence on the field. 
The Petitioner also submits letters from editors of various tublications. For example, the founder and 
editor in chief of ArchDaily calls the I center a "great example of [ the Petitioner's] 
exceptional work." He asserts that "publication[] of her representative works ... can certainly bring 
invaluable inspiration to other designers," but this attests to potential impact and influence without 
showing that the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field of architectural design. 
The assistant deoutv editor of Domus discusses some of the Petitioner's desim1s and states: I 
r This general statement does not suffice to explain how the Petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "There are elements of her work which serve as building blocks to 
the future success of design, and while this premise may seem 'insignificant,' on the contrary, 
foundational work is the start of many groundbreaking contributions." The burden, however, is on the 
Petitioner to show that her work is recognized as "foundational," and is being used "as building blocks to 
the future success of design." Speculation that future architects and designers could rely on her work has 
no weight in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner asserts that the record shows that she "has been instrumental in the creation of dozens of 
architectural designs ... which have been widely implemented and resulted in economic benefits." The 
burden is on the Petitioner to document those claimed benefits, and to show that they result from her 
design work, rather than the underlying project. 
For example, a shopping mall will have a commercial impact owing to the retail sales that occur there as 
a matter of course; the Petitioner cannot simply claim credit for that impact because she was involved in 
the architectural design of the facility where those sales take place. A particularly innovative design may 
increase traffic to that shopping mall, but it is up to the Petitioner to show how this is the case. 
The Petitioner does not meet this burden on appeal. For instance, she provides information about "an 
urban complex that integrates [a] large shopping mall, office building, apartment and residence." The 
Petitioner then provides information about the complex, and claims that it "has become an industry 
benchmark in China's shopping malls," but does not explain how this is due to the Petitioner's 
architectural design work rather than other attributes of the complex, such as the intrinsic demand for 
shopping, office, and residential facilities. The Petitioner also does not show that it was she who 
conceived the idea of consolidating these different facilities into a single complex, or that her work has 
influenced others in her field. 
The Petitioner asserts that the various projects are "examples [ of] utilization/application of her work," but 
the construction of buildings from plans she was hired to prepare does not show influence beyond that 
project. Not every completed structure is inherently an original contribution of major significance in the 
field. The Petitioner does not claim that the designs she has created for the various projects have had a 
significant effect on the field of architectural design. Rather, she asserts that her "architectural designs 
have resulted in buildings, resorts, malls, bridges, etc., which are currently being utilized by millions of 
consumers," but she offers no explanation as to why the success of a given commercial project establishes 
major significance in the.field of architectural design. 
The Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that her original contributions are of major significance in the 
field of architectural design. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has demonstrated her involvement in some high-profile architectural projects, but she has not shown 
that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Submitted letters refer to the Petitioner's work as influential but do not 
document that influence. Much of the media coverage documented in the record appears to be 
promotional in nature. The Petitioner has established that she is a creative and successful architectural 
designer, but has not demonstrated a level of acclaim that would place her at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11895069 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he seeks to enter the United States to continue working in his area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The petition must also be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has performed in over 50 plays at thq l's Art Theatre, including the lead in I I described as a classic modem play. The Petitioner also performed in the title role in a television 
series called I I After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met more than three of these criteria, but detailed 
discussion of the additional criteria would not affect the outcome of the decision and therefore we 
reserve those issues. 1 
Because the Petitioner met at least three of the initial criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. The Director concluded that that the Petitioner has not established the sustained 
national or international acclaim required for the classification. On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
address the Director's specific conclusions. Instead, the Petitioner contends that Kazarian does not 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 
require, or even permit, a final merits determination. The Petitioner contends that, by satisfying at 
least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, he has established eligibility. 
The Petitioner's interpretation of Kazarian is incorrect. That decision does not indicate that satisfaction 
of three or more criteria should inevitably result in the approval of the petition. Instead, the Court clearly 
described a two-step process,.first evaluating the evidence within the initial criteria, and then determining 
whether that evidence establishes the required acclaim: 
If a petitioner has submitted the requisite evidence [under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)], USCIS 
[U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services] determines whether the evidence 
demonstrates both a "level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the[ir] field of endeavor," 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2), and "that the alien has sustained national or international acclaim and that his 
or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise." 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
Kazarian at 1119-20. The criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not, by themselves, establish acclaim. 
Instead, they address an "antecedent procedural question" that precedes the "final merits determination." 
Id. at 1121. USCIS has adopted this approach in a policy memorandum.2 
Notwithstanding the deficiencies in the Petitioner's argument, there are also issues in the Director's 
decision which must be addressed. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's prizes and media 
coverage, but stated that: "Performance awards and media attention are common in the entertainment 
industry, especially among actors." The Director concluded that the Petitioner could not establish 
sustained acclaim without forth er documentation, "such as evidence that [the] petitioner has [ received] 
an unusually large number of recognized awards or an unusually large amount of attention in major 
media." 
The Director's analysis did not give sufficient attention to the nature of the evidence in the record. 
For example, the published articles in the record describe the Petitioner as an established and highly 
successful actor. One article indicates that the Petitioner played an iconic stage role for over 20 years. 
Another states that his role as a detective in a television series "made him a well-known big star." The 
articles reflect knowledge of the Petitioner's past work, and presuppose the readers' familiarity with that 
work, indicating long-standing attention to his career beyond the superficial biographical details that can 
accompany an introduction to a previously obscure performer. It is also significant that the articles span 
more than a decade, indicating sustained media interest rather than a single burst of attention that 
immediately preceded the filing of the petition (which would raise questions about the circumstances of 
their publication). 
2 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The submitted evidence presents a facially plausible claim that the Petitioner has earned sustained 
national acclaim in China. The Director does not appear to have taken all of the relevant information 
into account, concentrating on the quantity, rather than the content, of the Petitioner's awards and 
media articles. Further analysis and consideration of the record is necessary. 
B. Continued Work in the United States 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to show how he will 
continue to work in his field, as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5) requires the Petitioner to submit clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the beneficiary 
detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States. 
The Petitioner submits a two-page "Employment Contract" between himself andl ., ,I 
inl I California. The Director raised two concerns about this contract. First, the record does 
not provide any further information aboutl I Second, the contract is in English, which 
the Petitioner does not speak. The Director's concerns are valid, but phrased so vaguely that the Petitioner 
did not have a meaningful opportunity to address these issues in response to a request for evidence or on 
appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i) (requiring the Director to explain in writing the specific reasons for 
denial). 
In a translated statement submitted on appeal, the Petitioner states that he is unaware of any English 
proficiency requirement for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. The issue, however, is not 
the Petitioner's English proficiency as such. Rather, the issue is that we cannot determine the extent to 
which the Petitioner fully comprehends an employment contract in a foreign language. 
With respect to the co~tracr Mill I the Director's concerns bear some elaboration. The 
contract indicates that I provides "entertainment performances for TV programs and 
TV broadcasting," but the record does not show that the company has actually produced any television 
programming. The street address for the company belongs to a single-family house. The contract does 
not list any named projects, or any specific roles that the Petitioner would play. 
Of particular concern, the contract appears to exist for the sole purpose of supporting the petition. A 
clause in the document reads: "Studio agrees that if [the Petitioner] obtains a visa other than the 
Extraordinary Alien visa or an immigration bias, this agreement shall not be enforceable against him." 
Furthermore, the contract, executed in June 2019, "shall cease to exist automatically on January 1, 2020." 
These provisions raise significant questions as to whether the document is a bona fide contract, reflecting 
a true mutual intention for the Petitioner to work for the studio. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification with no specific job offer 
requirement, and the regulations do not require submission of an employment contract. Nevertheless, the 
documentation submitted in support of the petition must reflect true facts. See section 204(b) of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § l 154(b). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires clear evidence that a given 
petitioner is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. Because the 
4 
Petitioner chose to submit an employment contract, it is proper to examine the terms set forth in that 
contract. The same regulation also indicates that a petitioner's statement must include "detail[ ed] plans"; 
a generalized assertion of intent cannot suffice in this regard. 
The Director's concerns about the contract between the Petitioner and~-----~ are valid, but 
The Petitioner has not had the opportunity to address specific, relevant issues regarding that document. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The final merits determination in the original decision was deficient in that it focused on the quantity 
of the Petitioner's awards and amount of press coverage. Also, the Director did not provide the 
Petitioner with an adequate opportunity to elaborate upon his plans for continued work in the United 
States. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should request any additional evidence deemed warranted 
and allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence within a reasonable period of time. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12093133 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error as the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner had satisfied the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification . The Director 
further determined that the Petitioner had provided conflicting information to USCIS that was not 
resolved by her response to the notice of intent to revoke (NOIR). We affirmed the revocation of the 
previously approved petition and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on a 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 l&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the combined motions. 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form l-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
A. The Classification Sought 
Section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
B. Revocation of an Approved Petition 
Section 205 of the Act states: "The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he deems 
to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204. 
Such revocation shall be effective as of the date of approval of any such petition." 
Regarding the revocation of an immigrant petition under section 205 of the Act, the Board of Immigration 
Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime ... , this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa petition 
is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time 
the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa 
petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to 
revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, 
including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice 
of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (quoting Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. at 452). 
2 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal determining that although she established that she meets three of 
the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the totality of the evidence did not 
demonstrate her sustained national or international acclaim and that she is among the small percentage 
at the very top of her field of endeavor. In evaluating the evidence in the final merits determination, 
we weighed evidence related to the Petitioner's industry award, her leading position with the board of 
directors of I land evidence of other high-ranking corporate positions she held, the 
compensation she received for these positions, her published articles in journals related to business 
management, and her position on a journal's editorial board. We determined that the record 
established that she enjoyed a successful career in business in China·~ I province. However, we 
concluded that she did not establish by a preponderance of the evidence that she achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim in her field as required by section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act, and was 
therefore not eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In addition, we acknowledged that the Director had also revoked the approval of the petition, in part, 
based on a conclusion that the Petitioner had provided conflicting information to USCIS and the U.S. 
Department of State regarding her employment experience and salary which had not been fully 
resolved by her response to the NOIR. Because our determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
her eligibility for the requested classification was dispositive of the appeal, we reserved this separate 
issue and did not discuss it in detail. We did, however, acknowledge a claim by Petitioner's new 
counsel that any apparent discrepancies in the record were attributable to "negligence and inadequate 
representation by previous counsel" and "misrepresentation and fraud by an individual" who "posed 
as a US attorney." We observed that the allegations of ineffective assistance made on appeal were 
limited to new counsel's unsubstantiated claims about the conduct of prior counsel and his unlicensed 
associate. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider is based on two allegations that USCIS misapplied the law to 
the facts of this case. First, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the record 
established that she met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
and thus erred in revoking the approval of the petition. Specifically, the Petitioner contends that, since 
the Director determined in both the NOIR and the notice of revocation that the Petitioner met only two 
of these initial criteria, a "final merit[s] determination was not in the scope of the NOIR" and under 
Matter of Arias, 19 l&N Dec. 568 {BIA 1988), "the revocation could not have been made under a final 
merit[s] determination." The Petitioner requests that the Director "reconsider the revocation." 
The basis for the Director's revocation of the approved petition, and our decision to affirm that 
revocation, was that the Petitioner did not meet the statutory and regulatory eligibility requirements 
3 
for this classification at section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). As 
discussed above, the final merits determination is the second stage of the multi-part analysis set forth 
in Kazarian and involves a review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support the petition; it 
does not have separate evidentiary requirements. 
Here, the NOIR listed all ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), explained the multi-part 
analysis and final merits determination that must be conducted if a petitioner meets at least three 
criteria, and advised that, under Kazarian, meeting the initial evidence requirement does not, in and 
of itself, establish that the individual has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field. The NOIR provided notice of this multi­
part analysis and did not erroneously advise the Petitioner that she would overcome the intended 
revocation simply by meeting one additional evidentiary criterion. 
Further, although we concluded upon de nova review of the record, including additional evidence and 
clarifications submitted on appeal, that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we did not conclude that the Director's determination was in error based on the evidence before him 
at the time of the revocation decision. 
Based on the foregoing, our decision to affirm the revocation was not grounded upon factors that were 
outside the scope of the NOIR or the notice of revocation. The Petitioner's implied request that we 
remand the matter to the Director for further consideration will not be granted. 
The second argument that the Petitioner makes in support of her motion to reconsider is that the "AAO 
erred in the application of the final merits determination." The Petitioner specifically highlights our 
statement that "the Petitioner's apparent unemployment since 2015 diminishes her claim that she has 
sustained whatever acclaim she may have previously earned in business." However, the Petitioner has 
not explained how we misapplied the law or policy in considering the Petitioner's recent activities in 
the field in our evaluation of whether she has sustained acclaim at a level that places her among those 
at the very top of the field.1 The quoted language from our decision immediately followed a detailed 
discussion explaining why the totality of the evidence related to her industry award, corporate 
positions and compensation, published journal articles and other evidence from 2015 and years prior 
did not demonstrate that she had achieved national or international acclaim; the lack of recent evidence 
of her activities was not the deciding factor in our final merits determination. 
Rather than presenting a legal argument detailing how we misapplied law or policy in analyzing the 
final merits of her case, the Petitioner asks that we review a new affidavit in which she explains her 
recent activities in the United States and personal reasons for not pursuing full-time employment since 
2015. She also explains her financial situation, noting that she has considerable resources based on 
her position as "a highly successful businesswoman in the top of her field" who "was compensated 
accordingly." However, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was incorrect based 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that "[i]f an alien was recognized for a 
particular achievement, [USCIS] should determine whether the alien continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim 
in the field of expertise .... An alien may have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter." 
4 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We 
do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss her appeal was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that it was incorrect based on the evidence before us on appeal. 
Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Here, the Petitioner 
states that she is seeking to reopen the matter based on the ineffective assistance she received from her 
former counsel,! land his associate,! lwho is not a licensed attorney. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the Petitioner acknowledges that she retained the services of an 
individual! I who is not an attorney or accredited representative, albeit she states that she did 
so unknowingly. The Petitioner's ineffective assistance claim is primarily focused on actions taken 
by this individual. However, there is no remedy available for a petitioner who assumes the risk of 
authorizing an unlicensed attorney or unaccredited representative to undertake representations on its 
behalf. See 8 C.F.R. § 292.1; see also Hernandez v. Mukasey, 524 F.3d 1014 (9th Cir. 2008) 
("nonattorney immigration consultants simply lack the expertise and legal and professional duties to 
their clients that are the necessary preconditions for ineffective assistance of counsel claims"). 
However, as the record shows that the Petitioner was represented by an attorney who filed a Form G-
28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney, with the Form 1-140, we will consider her ineffective 
assistance claim. In a newly submitted affidavit, the Petitioner states that she met the named attorney, 
I Ion one occasion in September 2015 and had no further communication with him since 
that time.2 She nevertheless maintains that former counsel's representation was clearly deficient and 
prejudiced her case, emphasizing that "because of the unorganized, falsified and confusing evidence 
submitted by prior counsel," her credibility was in question in the notice of intent to revoke, the notice 
of revocation, and the AAO's decision. 
As we already discussed, we affirmed the Director's revocation of the approval and dismissed the 
appeal based solely on the merits of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability claim and a determination 
that the Petitioner did not establish that she has sustained national and international acclaim and that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. We reserved and did not discuss the 
issue of whether the record contained derogatory information or unresolved inconsistencies that would 
independently warrant revocation of the petition's approval. 
The specific discrepancies discussed in the "Derogatory information" section of the Director's 
decision focused on the Petitioner's employment history, specifically her exact job titles, dates and 
locations of employment with~-----~ and the sources of her income as reflected in her 
2 We note that~-----------~· is named along with ~------___,...... on the 
representation agreement the Petitioner signed in September 2015. The provided copy of the agreement does not include 
his sig?ati,re and the Petitioner does not claim that she paidl I or his firm; she states that she directly paid0 Dofl I 
5 
Chinese tax documentation. The Petitioner states in her affidavit that the NOIR response included an 
"inaccurate description of [her] work and income" as a result of ineffective assistance that prejudiced 
her case. However, a review of our decision reflects that these factors did not prejudice her case at 
the appeal stage. If we doubted the credibility of the evidence relating to her prior employment and 
salary, we would not have determined that she served in a leading role withl lor that 
she received compensation commensurate with her "important positions at L..J and other 
companies." 
We did express a concern with current counsel's contention that certain evidence was prepared by the 
Petitioner's previous representative without her full participation and awareness, and that she may 
have signed documents she did not fully understand based on her limited English language 
comprehension. For example, we noted that she signed the Form 1-140 and attested to the accuracy 
of the information provided, although the petition indicated her residential address was in Delaware 
when in fact she resided in California. This was not a substantive issue that influenced our evaluation 
of her eligibility for this classification, as we concluded that she provided sufficient credible, probative 
evidence to establish that she met at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that the outcome of her appeal was impacted by 
the claimed ineffective assistance of former counsel. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not stated the new facts to be provided in a reopened proceeding that would 
overcome our determination that she did not establish her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability pursuant to section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). The only new 
facts provided on motion that directly address the basis for dismissal of the appeal, as noted above, 
relate to her activities subsequent to her arrival to the United States in 2015. As noted, the Petitioner 
provides new information explaining why she has not been employed full-time since leaving her last 
position abroad. However, the information provided in her affidavit does not overcome our 
determination that she did not establish that she achieved sustained national or international acclaim 
in the years prior to 2015 or provide sufficient grounds for reopening the appeal. Accordingly, the 
motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
of our previous decision or otherwise established eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13212638 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oncologist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his medical degrees a~ I University id._ ___ ___.l China, where he 
has since held positions of increasing authority in the Department of Oncology, including chief 
physician, director, and professor. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (iv) and (vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (v). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only two of the criteria. Below, we address the third claimed criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioners must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
2 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner claims three qualifying research contributions: 
• He studied "the efficacy of.__ _____________ _. in preventing I 
I I hepatitis B virus (rBV: rearivation"; ~----~ 
• He "identified a series of markers and ) for the prediction of ... I lcancers"; and ~-------~ 
• He "discovered that I l . eliminated cancer stem cells and enhanced the efficacy of 
conventional chemotherapeutic drugs, suggesting a novel strategy for overcoming the 
chemoresistance during cancer treatment." 
The Petitioner asserts that the significance of his work is evident through heavy citation of his published 
work and "letters provided by independent experts in his field." As an example of the latter, a letter 
signed by a professor at the University! I Cancer Center includes the following 
passage: 
[The Petitioner] discovered that the reduced expression ofi I was associated with 
chemoresistance and the increased risk of tumor recurrence in patience with I I 
cancer, while the overexpression ofl I suppressed the growth of1 I cancer cells 
and enhanced chemosensitivity. He further elucidated the molecular mechanism and 
demonstrated tha~ I exerted its function mainly through the inhibition of the 
I I pathway. [The Petitioner's findin s identified! las a 
tumor suppressor! I and suggested that th ~------~ axis could serve as 
a valuable therapeutic target for enhancing chemosensitivity and suppressing tumor 
recurrence itj !cancer. 
Apart from the speculative nature of the assertion that the Petitioner's findings "suggested:' what "could 
serve as a valuable therapeutic target," a letter signed by the chairman of the Prostate Cancer Research 
and Education Foundation contains nearly identical wording: 
[The Petitioner] discovered that the reduced expression of~-------~, was 
associated with chemo-resistance and the increased risk of tumor recurrence in patience 
with! 0 I cancer, while the overexpression ofl I su pressed the growth o~ I 
cancer cells and enhanced chemo-sensitivi wit exerting its function mainly 
through the inhibition of the,__ ________ __,pathway. This work highlighted 
thel I axis as a valuable therapeutic target for enhancing chemo 
sensitivity and suppressing tumor recurrence inl I cancer. 
These similarities strongly suggest common authorship. See Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 
489 F .3d 51 7, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that 
when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by 
its quality. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 
3 
I&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). This evidence necessarily raises questions about who actually wrote 
(rather than signed) the other submitted letters. 
The remaining letters describe different work by the Petitioner, but fit the same pattern of describing 
specific findings in technical detail without explaining how they are of major significance (rather than 
merely interesting or useful). For instance, an assistant professor at the Universit~ I states 
that the Petitioner "identified the underlying mechanism b] whicH I suppressed the transcription 
oft I by increasing th~._ _________ __. promoter," but does not explain why this 
particular finding is more significant than the findings published in many other articles each year. 
A senior scientist at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration states that the Petitioner's "work has been 
adopted by the I I and the,___ ___________ __, 
~---------- ...... in their guidelines for international physicians," but does not elaborate. 
Other documents in the record show that the Petitioner is a co-author of one of 60 articles cited in the 
bibliography of an article in a~ ljoumal, establishing ~------r--.----~' for I I 
' and one of more than 200 articles cited in an article in a journal, setting forth 
" Thel I article ~------------------------,-----r--~ cites the Petitioner's paper to support the observation that "~ __ __. is more effective than I I for the prevention of HBV reactivation associated with I I 
chemoimmunotherapy." The0, article cites the Petitioner's work to show that "recent studies 
suggest thatl ~ can be successfully usld in rrronic HBV] patients." The record does not 
include information from either thd I or the which would support a finding that citations 
of this type are indicative of contributions of major significance. Because each article cites dozens or 
hundreds of sources for guidelines on relatively narrow topics, it is reasonable to infer that the 
organizations' complete guidelines rely on a substantially greater number of sources. 
The articles establishing the clinical guidelines do not indicate that the Petitioner developed the drugs 
discussed, or discovered new applications for them. Rather, they cite an article in which the Petitioner 
and his collaborators discussed a clinical trial of drugs already in use to treat hepatitis B. The record 
shows that the citation rate of the Petitioner's article places it among the top 1 % of articles in its field 
from 2014. This is not an insignificant citation rate, but the record does not sufficiently establish the 
nature and extent of the Petitioner's contributions to the paper. The Petitioner was one of 15 authors 
of the paper, which described a clinical trial involving more than 60 patients~--------~ 
I I Given the size of the undertaking, the burden is on the Petitioner to specify the nature of his 
involvement in the study. There is no presumption that he conceived, designed, or directed the study, 
rather than received author credit by virtue of treating and collecting data from some of the patients 
involved in the study. We note that, although various individuals have signed letters on the Petitioner's 
behalf, the principal authors of the highly-cited articles are not among those individuals. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that three of his other articles have amassed citations placing them in 
the top 1 % for their respective years of publication. For the reasons discussed below, these articles do 
not establish that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance: 
• The Petitioner is one of 10 authors of a 2010 article describing a clinical trial that spanned 
several institutions and involved 140 patients. The record establishes that the Petitioner was 
4 
one of several participating physicians, but does not specify the nature of his contributions to 
the study described in the paper. 
• A 2014 article about I I profiling and I I cancer. The Petitioner previously 
submitted the first page of this article among many other examples of his work, but did not 
discuss this article. The submitted letters do not mention the research behind this article. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not explain how it relates to any of the three identified contributions 
that he specifically claims to be of major significance. 
• A 2017 article associating the reduced expression o~~--~lwith chemoresistance. This article, 
which we discussed above, is the subject of the passage that appeared in more than one letter. 
This article has a much lower citation count, but reached the top 1 % of citations because it was 
published less than two years before the petition's September 2018 filing date, and even low 
citation numbers can reach high percentages in the time immediately following publication. 
The Petitioner has not presented a consistent, specific, and fully corroborated claim regarding the 
significance of his contributions. Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. In this instance, the 
Petitioner has satisfied the plain wording of two of the regulatory criteria through activities that are 
routine in the field of medical research -specifically, authorship of scholarly articles and peer review 
of articles written by others. A few of his co-authored articles have received a significant number of 
citations, but, as explained above, the Petitioner has not shown that his specific contributions to those 
papers are of major significance in the field. Participation in an influential study does not inherently 
meet this high threshold. Letters submitted to support the petition describe the findings from some of 
the Petitioner's papers, but do not detail the Petitioner's contributions to those articles or establish 
their significance other than in general and speculative terms. Furthermore, as discussed above, the 
provenance of the letters is questionable. 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10896915 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability as a wrestling coach. 1 This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
determining that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director 
subsequently dismissed two motions determining that the record did not demonstrate that he achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim, nor did he show that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 3 
We review the questions in this matter de novo.4 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
4 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."5 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 6 
II. ANALYSIS 
After gaining experience as a wrestling competitor for approximately 15 years, the Petitioner became 
a wrestling assistant eventually moving into the head coach ofl I wrestling in the National 
Youth Wrestling Team ofl I He further attained a degree unrelated to the claimed field of 
expertise from his home country. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to prizes or awards, published material, and judging, but that 
he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original contributions of major significance, 
performing in a leading or critical role, or commanding a high salary or remuneration. We agree that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the regulatory requirements the Director positively identified, and we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
5 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). 
2 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 7 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
We begin noting that the Petitioner filed this petition in September 2017. The Director, in the decision 
on the second motion, concluded that the Petitioner had not shown sustained acclaim because the 
record lacked achievements recognizing his achievements after 201 7. As the Petitioner is required to 
demonstrate eligibility as of the date he filed the petition, his accomplishments at that time should 
establish whether he qualifies for this classification. 8 Therefore, we do not agree with the Director's 
analysis as it relates to the Petitioner's achievements ceasing in 201 7. 
The Petitioner received several awards as a competitor, then began coaching in 2014 where he also 
received recognition as a coach. The Petitioner received a coach ofthelyouthlteam certificate for the 
team's first place finishes at the 20161 !Championship and the Championships in that 
same year. '----------~--- the international governing body for amateur wrestling, 
issued these certificates. These competitions were also discussed in a news article that demonstrates 
national attention in the country o±1 I While the two awards appear notable, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that demonstrates how this level of success compares with other coaches such 
that it illustrates his place is among those in the top few percentage in the field. For instance, the 
record does not establish the number of national or international events the Petitioner's team competed 
in during his time as a coach, or how his record of success compares to other wrestling coaches. 
Additionally, the Petitioner's coaching awards appear to be within an age-limited, youth category. It 
is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that awards won coaching in age-limited competitions are 
indicative of status among the top of the field, including the most experienced wrestling coaches. As a 
result, while the Petitioner has shown he is accomplished in this area, he has not demonstrated that he is 
one of "that small percentage of individuals that have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor."9 
Published material about the Petitioner and his work in the field consisted of several articles. However, 
the Petitioner only demonstrated that two of those articles garnered attention sufficient to be 
considered major media at the national level in his home country. The record lacks evidence showing 
how this overall media coverage indicates a level of success within that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 10 Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting on him and his work activities reflected a career of acclaimed work in the field 
or that it was indicative of the very high standard to present more extensive documentation. 11 
7 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (Policy Memo) 
(stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the 
immigrant classification). 
8 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
9 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
3 
With regard to the Petitioner's judging experience, he served as a referee for the I !Wrestling 
Federation from 2012 through 2017. In that time, he received four certificates of recognition for 
refereeing cadet and junior-level competitors in local or amateur-level competitions in 2015 and 2016. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that his service in this capacity evaluating 
age-limited cadet and junior groups-ranging in age from 15 to 20 years old-places him among the 
top of the field. Although the Petitioner provided one article discussing his work as a referee, the 
author of that article focused on the distinguished reputation of another referee, relegating discussion 
of the Petitioner to a group of less experienced and younger referees who had achieved a lower level 
of success. 
Additionally, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml l I I has served as 
an Olympic referee in four consecutive Olympic games and was awarded 2014's Best Referee of the 
World in the form of a Golden Whistle I I Within his letter! I did not describe 
the Petitioner's achievements as a referee at a level approaching his own accomplishments, and instead 
discussed the importance of the Petitioner's unbiased personal characteristics in this role. Without 
material that sets him apart from others in the field, the Petitioner has not shown that extensive 
documentation exists relating to his achievements, or that his judging experience places him among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor.12 
The Petitioner did not describe the following elements within his appeal brief However, we consider 
them within our final merits determination as part of the totality of the record. The Petitioner's claimed 
original contribution of major significance is a wrestling move namedl I described as I I 
throw technique in which he differs from other similar moves through only using the I I instead of 
thd I and an "exceptional use of torque." Media coverage in the form of two interviews 
with the Petitioner discussed this contribution, and the Petitioner demonstrated that one of those 
articles garnered national circulation within his home country. 
Additionally, letters from prominent former competitors and current coaches acknowledge that his 
technique is unique and original, and that wrestling teams from countries outside the Petitioner's own 
have implemented the move. Here, the letters described his contribution without showing how it rises 
to a level of major significance in the field and how it is reflective of an individual who has garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation.13 
As it relates to the Petitioner's performance in a leadin or critical role for or anizations with a 
distinguished reputation, his position as head coach of the ~-----r--------""TT""--~..., I I was discussed within two letters. The first letter was fr:._::o::.::::====::::;---------j ~---~ 
president, who stated the Petitioner contributed immensely to thd !wrestling team leadership 
and global status, and that was due solely to the Petitioner's excellent energy and decision-making 
skills. I l12rovided the second letter and provided an identical statement as it relates to 
the Petitioner's role forl I'. Due to the lengthy passage of identical language within these two 
letters, we question the reliability of the assertions within this correspondence. Regardless of the 
origin of this text, this does not meet the preponderance of the evidence standard to establish that the 
12 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
13 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
4 
relevant and identical content is the authors' firsthand account of the facts at issue. 14 This has a 
significant adverse effect on the probative value of their statements on this topic and such material is 
not wholly representative of one who has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. Aside 
from this evidentiarily deficient correspondence, the Petitioner did not offer other probative evidence 
demonstrating the acclaim he has received for his work forl I As a result, the documentation 
the Petitioner submitted was not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level 
of expertise indicating that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his 
field. 
We note that the Petitioner did not offer evidence demonstrating he satisfied the category relating to a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
While he did demonstrate his annual salary and bonuses, and provided one letter that claimed he was 
the highest paid coach in thel O I at three time the rate of any other coach, he was 
unable to offer probative documentation to corroborate these assertions. Such statements made without 
supporting documentation are of limited probative value and are insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof 15 The absence of adequately comparative data prevents the Petitioner from 
demonstrating his salary or remuneration is among those within "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 16 
Although the Petitioner provides a letter from the head coach of USA Wrestling stating his desire to 
have the alien join the team as a coach, that relates to activities occurring after the petition filing date. 
While we will not consider that intent as part of the Petitioner's accolades within these proceedings, 
it does satisfy the requirement that the alien seeks to continue work in his area of expertise in the 
United States. 17 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 18 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that he has received recognition 
for his coaching efforts through awards, published articles, and his service judging the work of others. 
However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his 
national or international acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in 
the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive 
documentation exhibiting his attainment of a level of expertise placing him among that small 
percentage that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
14 In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See 
Chawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 376 (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 T&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
15 Matter of Soffici, 22 T&N Dec. 158, 165 (Comm'r 1998). 
16 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
17 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A)(ii); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
18 See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11283620 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of engineering for an e-commerce company , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at 
least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is currently employed as a director of software engineering with 
I l where he has worked in H-lB nonimmigrant status since October 2015. He joined 
~----~lwith 15 years of pro ressive ex erience in the software en ineering field, most recently 
as an assistant vice president fo where he worked from 2014 
to 2015. The Petitioner has a bachelor of technology degree from ~-----------~ University in India. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria pertaining to leading or critical roles and high 
salary. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the original contributions criterion and 
asserts that the Director did not properly weigh the submitted evidence of his business and engineering 
related contributions and the significance of these contributions in his field. 
We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. The Petitioner meets only the two criteria 
granted by the Director. We will discuss the remaining claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
2 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his original contributions have been widely accepted and implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he provided ample evidence of his original contributions to the 
software engineering field and asserts that the Director failed to discuss the detailed information 
contained in letters from his current and former employers, submitted at the time of filing. The record 
also includes two expert opinion letters from university professors in the computer science field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's contributions during his tenure ate=] he provided a letter from 
I ts Senior Vice President -Head of Digital Product Strategy.I ~ indicates 
that he previously served as Head of Product Development withinl business 
division, noting he frequently interacted with the Petitioner, who he describes as "the lead 
development engineer" within the division and "one of the firm's most important technical 
contributors to the broader suite of core innovative products for our department." He describes I I as a "single integrated messaging and connectivity engine" that was "specially designed 
for asset managers, insurance companies, banks ... and other technology platforms." 
~---~I goes on to describe some of the Petitioner's contributions to the division, noting that he 
"engineered and developed a remarkable and outstanding multi-bank event management and 
notification workflow solution designed to simplify the most challenging corporate actions lifecycle 
processes." He explains the complexity of the problem addressed by this workflow solution, and notes 
that the system "adds a strategic advantage" compared to "traditional systems." He describes its 
features, and states that there are "no off-the-shelf software solutions available that can match these 
capabilities and provide this end to end workflow." I I also credits the Petitioner with 
developing "an advanced configurable rule-based engine to process complex rules to handle data from 
several message systems" and describes the capabilities of this solution. 
While this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner made original engineering contributions toe=] s I F division that benefited the company and its clients, it does not establish how such 
contributions to~s products have remarkably impacted or influenced the field or industry.c=J I I praises the Petitioner's "in-depth knowledge on building scalable real time systems and his 
ability to lead a team to successfully [] execute on his vision to drive significant business upside" as 
well as his ability "to delight customers with pioneering solutions to challenging problems." He also 
generally states that the types of solutions the Petitioner developed "can be useful for systems and 
organizations that exchange data," but does not elaborate on their impact on the field. In order to 
establish that his contributions ate=] satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his 
contributions have been widely implemented in the field or have otherwise been recognized for their 
major significance. The record does not include, for example, evidence that other com1anies have 
adopted the types of engineering solutions he helped develop during his tenure at The plain 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
3 
language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an impact 
beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013). While the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner possesses technological knowledr 
and skills that enabled him to solve engineering challenges faced byc=]and its clients,! s 
letter does not establish how his contributions impacted the field. 
In the RFE, the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional independent, 
objective evidence, beyond testimonial letters, to establish that his contributions have significantly 
influenced the field. The Petitioner's response to the RFE included two expert opinion letters from 
university professors, which we will discuss further below, and copies of previously submitted evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner now asks that we consider "several industry articles" intended to provide 
supplemental explanations of the im act of his work on the field. The evidence includes: 1 an October 
2013 ress release titled 
'· 2 a 2015 ress release titled ~-----t 
and 3 a 2018 ress release 
published by Business Insider, which announces the company's release of.__ _____ __, 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first 
time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 
533 (BIA 1988). Further, even if we review this evidence along withl ts letter, the record 
would not support a determination that the Petitioner made original contributions of major significance 
while employed b~ I The 2013 press release pre-dates the Petitioner's employment withe=] by 
a year and the 2018 press release post-dates his tenure by over two years. We also note that the spepi.fi.c; ~ts mentioned in these press releases! I are not referenced byLJ 
L___J in his letter. Finally, while these product releases were deemed sufficiently significant to 
warrant the company's issuance of a press release, the press releases alone do not demonstrate how 
these technologies remarkably impacted the field. 
The referenced 2015 press release coincides with the Petitioner's one-ear tenure withc=]but marks 
the automation of 1.3 million fund orders "throu h th s I I offshore fund platform andL...---r---i-------' over a period of three years (since 2012). 
However, sincec=]s relationship with~_~predated the Petitioner's tenure with the company, 
the press release alone does not establish that his contributions to the existing! I platform 
remarkably impacted the industry and such contributions were not addressed inl Vs letter. 
The Petitioner has also provided two letters that directly address his contributions during his tenure at I I. is described in the record asl I retailer of1 I sports 
merchandise L-------------~__J ............................. ~ofessional sports leagues and for over 
300 collegiate and professional team properties . .__ ____ _., the company's Chief Technology & 
Product Officer, credits the Petitioner with developing new capabilities for itsl I 
Platform which have significantly contributed to the company's revenue growth. He explains that the 
Petitioner's unique combination of software en ineering skills enabled his design and development of 
I I and which have enabled the com an to offer fans I I gear ~------------------------------~ 
4 
D and other major sports franchises. He states that "80+ business managers working on 300+ sites 
use these tools on a regular basis." 
I !further describes these tools in considerable detail, noting that few engineers have the 
diverse skill set required to meet the company's technological challen es and attributing! I 
significant sales growth to the Petitioner's enhancements of its platform. He also 
discusses the Petitioner's work on the platform's~-----~system, noting that he developed 
a I I system" which he describes as a "unique solution which very few companies 
across the world have attempted." I I explains that thel I 
system the Petitioner built allowsl I payment systems to operate in a fall back mode and 
.__ __________________________________ ____. during 
primary gateway down times." 
The Petitioner also provided a letter form I • I Vice President of Product Technology at I l who states that he leads product management for all aspects ofi t cloud commerce 
platform. I I likd I highly praises the Petitioner's engineering talent and 
leadership abilities and discusses his contributions to the company's! I platform. He 
highlights thd I solution (noting the Petitioner solved a "problem that every payment 
accepting! I faces"), ~ I System ( a security feature that detects anomalies in user 
activities), and the Petitioner's integration ofl I risk analysis engine to protect the 
platform from abuse. 
The contributions described byl I an~ I are novel and innovative in that they 
fill the unique needs of the I I platform, and their letters establish that the Petitioner has 
performed in a critical capacity for the company. However, the record does not establish how such 
contributions have had a significant impact or influence on thel I software technology field 
outside of the company. The record does not establish, for example, that the Petitioner's enhancements 
to th~ I platform have generated widespread commentary or discussion in the field or that 
other I I companies have modeled their I I platforms on enhancements the 
Petitioner made to th~ I platform. 
A letter froml 6 business architect withl l also discusses the Petitioner's work 
in th~ I field.I !describes the Petitioner as "an avid open source contributor for 
many public open-source software libraries" and that states his work "is very significant to a large 
scale platform which deals with data." He credits the Petitioner with: designing and implementing a 
scalable platform called! Ito power business analytics; designing dynamic configuration 
capabilities and an intelligent! I that allow an application/website behavior to be 
changed dramatically; developing tracking software that can benefit "many small scale-to-medium 
I !companies"; and introducing speedy checkout tol !checkout payment flows. 
With respect tol I paymentsJ I states that the "integration models and interfaces 
built by [the Petitioner] are significantly helping! I companies the way [sic] customers can 
make payments on any! I websites in a more secure and simplified way." However, he does 
not offer any specific examples, and the record does not contain supporting evidence, of how these 
technologies have been adopted by any companies other than the Petitioner's own employer. Simply 
stating that the Petitioner developed novel solutions that could be useful to other organizations is not 
5 
sufficient to show that his work has already proven to be remarkably impactful or influential in the 
field. 
Finally, we have considered the expert opinion letters of two professors of computer science. USCIS 
may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility . The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. 
ln his letter,! lo~ I University summarizes ilielletters g[°vided byD I ~ and I and the contributions the Petitioner made t{LJ and He concludes 
that his contributions are beneficial to the companies he has worked for and "will have lasting effects 
on the industry as a whole." He states that "[t]his is evident based on a simple comparison of similar 
platforms at other companies" noting that some features the Petitioner developed ad I are "some 
of the first to be contained in technologies of this nature and have the potential to be patented." 
Although his letter supports a finding that the Petitioner's contributions are novel, he does not state 
that those contributions have already impacted or influenced the broader industry . 
.__ _____ ___.I Professor and Chair of Computer Science at University! I 
indicates that the Petitioner "has made major original business contributions m the form of 
groundbreaking technology innovations in the field o~ I" Like ________ he 
discusses the letters provided by the Petitioner's employers, noting that the letters establish his ability 
to develop specific technology solutions that "improve the efficiency and overall profitability of 
standard processes," and noting that such solutions have "far-reaching significance." He further states 
that such achievements "are far outside the ken of the vast majority of developers and software 
engineers, and as such extend their influence into the industry at large." However, these statements 
are general and do not specify how the Petitioner's contributions have been of "major significance" in 
the field within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . 
,___ __ ____.lalso highlights the Petitioner's work onl I atl I noting that "this 
contribution extends far outside of its immediate application" at his employer. He notes that I I is a "cutting edge security solution" used inl I and retail banking, and states 
that the Petitioner's I I solution stands out as among the 
leading advancements in this area in the short time since the development of the I I 
technology" and "bears major significance for the over......,....__ ___ ..... industry" by "adding to the 
growing number of technical improvements in the area o nd increasing competition in 
the same." Although! I refers to the Petitioner's work on.__ __ _. payment system as a 
"leading advancement" that has added to the incremental innovations in a growing area of technology, 
the record does not contain supporting evidence or specific examples showing that this advancement 
has already extended "far outside its immediate application" ad I such that it could be deemed 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
In summary, the submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or impact his work atOandl I has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
6 
subsequent work add value. 2 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 Moreover, 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. 
Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
3 Id. at 9. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12709174 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior user experience (UX) designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that she has been employed as a UI/UX Lead Designer fo~ I since 
2016. She received her bachelor's degree in graphic design froml lin 
Venezuela in 2004 and a master's degree in design and applied arts, specializing in 3D animation and 
post-production, froml I in Spain in 2007. The Petitioner's resume 
reflects that she has approximately 15 years of professional experience as a web designer, multimedia 
director, and senior UI/UX designer. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, 1 she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
• (vii), Display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to awards and leading or 
critical roles with distinguished organizations. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in 
determining that she did not also satisfy the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and the high 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that the Silveri !Award she received in 2011 is a major, internationally 
recognized award, but does not contest the Director's determination that the award does not satisfy the requirements of a 
qualifying one-time achievement pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).2 Upon review, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without explaining his determination. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors. 4 Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this 
criterion, we will withdraw that determination. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she and five of her coworkers at s I !office received a silverl !Award in 2011 for a piece entered under the 
Health Services and Communications' I I medium in the .__ ____ _.category.5 The 
record includes information about thc==]A wards an~ IA wards from the awarding entity's 
website and Wikipedia. The Petitioner also provided: a 2019 Variety article about theD Awards' 
launching of a newL I awards program; a 2010 New York Post article about the 
return of the mairc=] Awards ceremony to I r: a Forbes article about the 2017 
Awards ceremony, identifying some of the notable winners; and evidence thrat~---1------...J 
issued a press release announcing the company's receipt of the 2011 Silve award. This 
evidence does not address the si9nificance of the Petitioner's Silver~---~award, and does 
demonstrate, for example, that tht:i_ I Awards program enjoys the major media coverage or 
same recognition as that documented for the mainl I awards. Further, the evidence does 
not demonstrate that allc=]Awards across all different programs, categories and award levels are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 7 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that she did not satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-. 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Aft); Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark. No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the 
court determined the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 Id. 
5 The evidence indicates that the DA wards has six separate recognition programs for creative businesses in adve1iising, 
,.§QQI,tS, fashion, music, entertainment, and healthcare. In addition, the record reflects that mu. !tip le gold, silver, and bronze 
l_Jawards ma] be presented in each specific category within each of the awards programs, with the highest honor being 
the i~---~ award. 
6 The referenced Variety article mentions that thd IA wards are online only and do not have an awards ceremony. 
3 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that she received a 2018-2019 "Ironl I Award" in the 
Category" for her work on I I --------.------------------~ .__ ___ ....,,.....educational app. According to information provided on the award certificate, the "Iron" 
level award is given to designs judged to be in the top 20th percentile of entries to thel [ Award 
& Competition. The Petitioner submitted two online articles regarding the 2017-2018 edition of this 
awards program, from Design Boom (designboom.com) and Design Curial (designcurial.com). The 
articles indicate that in 2017-2018, thel I competition announced over 1900 award winners in 
in 99 design disciplines with five levels of distinction -platinum, gold, silver, bronze and iron -and 
featured some of the winning work. The Petitioner did not submit any press or media coverage related 
to the 2018-2019 edition of the competition in which she participated. The record does not include 
sufficient independent evidence of the national or international recognition associated with this award 
in general or with the "Iron" award received by the Petitioner. 8 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner maintains that the Director erred in determining that she did not submit evidence that 
she meets this criterion. 
As a preliminary matter we note that, after evaluating the Petitioner's evidence related to the display 
of her work, the Director also observed that this criterion is limited to the "visual arts" and that the 
Petitioner is "not a visual artist" who has created "tangible pieces of art that were on display at 
exhibitions or showcases." We disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner, whose work 
products as a multimedia artist and UX/UI designer include artistic elements, is not a "visual artist." 
Nevertheless, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that her portfolio be found online at 
several websites in the design field, including the website of the American Institute of Graphic Artists 
(AIGA) (aiga.org), Behance (behance.net) and The One Club (oneclub.org). The Director determined 
that the online member galleries and portfolios that reside on these websites are intended to serve as 
marketing and promotional platforms for participating/member artists and do not qualify as "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
has not pursued her claim that she meets the display criterion based on this evidence. 
Rather, the Petitioner's claims on appeal solely focus on the display ofthel I app and its graphic 
artwork at[ l.'s exhibition at the 20161 I 
Festival id I Texas. The evidence in the record confirms that the Petitioner contributed to the 
8 The record also reflects the Petitioner's receipt of an I I "'ward as part of an .,_I __________ __. 
team, and I ~s receipt of"' I !?018.__ ____ __,Silver Award tori I. We note that the 
Petitioner did not claim that the I I award was a qualifying award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, when 
res~onding to the Director's request for evidence, she did not pursue her initial claim that she meets this criterion based on 
theL I award after the Director observed that she was not the direct recipient of this award. 
4 
creation of thel I mobile app while employed as Lead UI/UX Designer fo~~---~ I lin Taiwan from 2012 to 2013. The record reflects that the app was featured as part of an 
exhibit promoting the 2016 I !festival's 1 t concert, and as a way for fans to track 
and interact with the I I music artists who performed at the concert. The Director, in 
determining that the Petitioner did not establish her eligibility under this criterion, observed that the 
purpose of the display atl I was not to display the Petitioner's design work, but rather to display 
the features of the software app and to promote the product. He emphasized that the Petitioner's name 
did not appear in any of the submitted promotional materials or media reports for the festival. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that thel I app was featured atl las an emerging 
technology, noting that "[a]rt can take many forms and in this case, it was used to design a software 
app." In support of the appeal, she submits a letter froml l a representative ofD I I confirming that she worked for this company as a freelancer fr9ffi-2.0.t 5 to 2016 to help 
"rebrand the previous! I App to a Music band location-....,.,..,........,,.........,,p forl__J' noting that "she 
handled the iOS design as well as web design and illustrations." confirms that she contributed 
to thel !exhibition by creating illustrations for the.__ __ __, artists who performed at the music 
festival and brought attention to the mobile app features and the music bands. The Petitioner also 
provides an e-mail from al I representative verifying that.__ ______ ~was an exhibitor 
atl 12016. 
The Petitioner does not address, however, the fact that she did not provide evidence that her 
contributions to the dis lay booth atl lwere publicly credited or attributed 
to her. We cannot determine that the booth at festival qualifies as an "artistic exhibition or 
showcase" of her work if she was not identified as the artist responsible for creating the work. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on her earnings as a UI/UX Lead Designer 
forl I The Petitioner states that her annual salary is $130,000. Her latest IRS Form W-2 
indicates that she earned $124,107.84 in 2019. 
To establish that she has a commanded a "high salary" in relation to others, the Petitioner submitted 
comparative wage data for "Graphic Designers." The initial evidence, obtained from the U.S. 
Department of Labor (DOL) Federal Labor Certification Data Center (www.flcdatacenter.com), shows 
a "Level 4 Wage" of $85,197 for graphic designers in thd I area where the 
Petitioner works. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner provided national salary data for "Senior Graphic 
Designers" from Glassdoor, indicating an average base pay of $55,421 and a high base pay of$79,000. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence from the DO L's Bureau of Labor Statistics, showing that the 
mean annual wage for graphic designers in the United States is $54,680, with a 90th percentile wage 
of $85,760. 
5 
The Director observed that the evidence shows that Petitioner's salary "is at the higher end of the 
spectrum for median wages of fully competent graphic designers, but she did not establish that she 
commands a 'high salary' compared to other graphic designers, nor did she provide enough 
information about the top earners in her field." On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously 
provided evidence establishes that her earnings are high compared to others in the field, whether that 
comparison is made nationally or to others working in the same geographic area. The Petitioner also 
submits additional data wage from the DOL's Career OneStop website, indicating that a high wage 
for graphic designer in the Petitioner's geographic area is $110,420. 
The DOL's description of the Graphic Designer occupation states that this position will "design or 
create graphics to meet specific commercial or promotional needs, such as packaging, displays or 
logos, and "may use a variety of mediums to achieve artistic or decorative effects." The evidence in 
the record does not establish that the Petitioner's duties as a lead UX/UI designer fore=] are the 
same as those of a graphic designer. The recommendation letters submitted in support of the petition 
also specify the Petitioner's area of specialization as UX/UI, interactive, web, and/or multimedia 
design, rather than "graphic design." 9 A letter frortj I indicates that the Petitioner hired and 
trained a team of designers who work under her leadership, but it does not indicate that she herself has 
been performing in a graphic designer position for the company. In her own statement, the Petitioner 
emphasizes that a "UX designer is concerned with the entire process of acquiring and integrating a 
product, including aspects of branding, design, usability and function." The Petitioner did not submit 
an explanation for submitting comparative data for graphic designers. 
Therefore, we conclude that the salary data provided for graphic designers did not allow for a 
comparison of the Petitioner's salary as a UX/UI lead designer "in relation to others in the field." See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). While her work may include elements of"graphic design," the record does not establish 
that her documented earnings are based on her performance of the duties of the "graphic designer" 
position described in the submitted DOL wage surveys. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that she receives a high salary in relation to 
others in her field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
9 We note that the DOL collects and reports independent salary data for Multimedia Artists and for Web Developers and 
Digital Interface Designers. 
6 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13454774 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an applied mechanics engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
subsequent appeal. The Petitioner now submits a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider , together with new evidence, and asserts that he meets three evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us on motion is whether the Petitioner has either submitted new facts sufficient to 
warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was based on an 
incorrect application of USCIS law or policy. 
A. AAO Decision 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he meets five of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to judging 
the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We 
determined that the Petitioner met the authorship of scholarly articles criterion. However, we withdrew 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion after concluding that there 
was insufficient evidence of his participation in peer review activities. We also determined that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the criteria relating to memberships and published materials. We reserved and 
2 
did not discuss the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that the Petitioner 
would not satisfy the initial evidence requirements even if he established that this criterion had been met. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the criteria relating to judging the work of others and original 
contributions. Specifically, he asserts that we overlooked certain evidence that was previously submitted 
and states that he is submitting new evidence establishing that he meets the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also requests that we review all evidence related to the original contributions 
criterion that we previously reserved, including new evidence submitted on motion. 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the new evidence submitted in support of the motion 
to reopen establishes that the Petitioner meets the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
However, he has not established that he meets a third criterion and has therefore not met the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As discussed, the Petitioner's combined motion addresses only two of the five criteria initially 
claimed. The Petitioner does not contest our determination that he did not satisfy the criteria relating 
to membership in associations and published materials about him and relating to his work. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In our appellate decision, we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had satisfied 
this criterion. We acknowledged that the Petitioner had claimed eligibility based on his review of 
papers at the 2010 Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies (AMPT2010) conference, but 
determined that the submitted evidence only indicated that he had accepted an invitation to act as a 
peer reviewer for AMPT2010. Specifically, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted an e-mail 
from the conference chairman reminding him to conduct his paper reviews in a timely manner, but we 
found this evidence alone insufficient to establish that he actually fulfilled his role as a peer reviewer 
for the conference. We also noted that the record included a letter from I I to the 
Petitioner inviting him "to act as a reviewer" for two journals in his field; however, we emphasized 
that the Petitioner did not provide any documentary evidence establishing that he actually reviewed 
papers or manuscripts for either journal. 
In his brief on motion, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient 
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he met this criterion based on his peer review 
activities. We disagree as the Petitioner has not explained how the evidence referenced above 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
confirmed his participation as a judge. 2 The fact that the AMPT2000 conference chair thanked the 
Petitioner in advance for agreeing to participate and reminded him to complete his review in a timely 
manner does not establish that he ultimately completed his assigned peer review activities for this 
conference. 
However, the Petitioner also submits new evidence in support of his motion to reopen that is sufficient 
to establish that he meets this criterion based on his completion of peer review activities for the 
journals referenced inl ts earlier letter. 
As the Petitioner has now established that he has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
we will consider whether he has satisfied the third and final claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that he has made original contributions of major significance based on his 
doctoral dissertation at University! _ l in which he studied ~--~I wear i~~ __ ltaa)s clue tal !interactions, and based on his work as a senior applied 
mechanics engineer witli : I where he worked on the development and commercialization of 
I I supports and restraints forl I applications in the energy industry. 
The Petitioner references his submission of letters from colleagues and other scientists and experts 
regarding his original contributions in his field.4 The letters summarize the Petitioner's research 
achjeyemeTs anq...hmadlr discuss the potential impact of his mechanical engineering research in the I and L__J power industries. However, they do not establish that his original 
contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within these fields. 
With respect to the Petitiolner's grjduate researchJ I who served on the Petitioner's 
dissertation committee at notes that the Petitioner "had undertaken a difficult technical but 
important problem for developing countries'! I sustainability." He explains that the 
Petitioner' S study 0~ lwear od I tools rl'providr a solution methodology ... that allowed 
the time to replace the worn tool for developers o and farther states that "the results of [the 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that peer review for a journal may be a qualifying 
judging activity, provided that it is evidenced by a request from the journal to the individual petitioner to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the petitioner actually completed the review). 
3 Id. at 8-9 (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish 
that the work is of major significance). 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Petitioner's research] has impact in the field ofl I removal and failure that will aid in the 
development of betterl I tools and practices as the expanding need forc=J increases in 
importance for developing countries."~-------~ a mechanical engineering professor at I I also discusses the Petitioner's doctoral research,! noting I that "tool wear is a major issue in I I operations" which "can lead to a decrease in quality and frequent downtime of 
equipment." He explains that the Petitioner's research methodology "can be used to optimize the tool 
material and the tool geometry" and to undertake "a r
1gor1us study to understand the effects of 
parameters such as .. I I speed, power consumption, density, etc. has on the tool wear."c=] I !farther observes that the Petitioner's methodology "can potentially be used in designing 
new tools with increased wear-life that result in economic benefits." 
.__ ___ ~ __ _.I of~--------~ who indicates that he knows the Petitioner as "a 
professional, friend and neighbor," states that the Petitioner's study od I wear o~ I tools 
"can be used as a template to conduct an effective research on the study of wear phenomenon." He 
states that the Petitioner "has made enormous contributions that [are] directly applicable to the safety 
of complex mechanical systems," noting that his research techni ues have both safet and 
environmental benefits.~--------~of th L-----r----, __________ ____J 
states that the Petitioner's research in this area "is a boon for th_~--- industry and will be a great 
help to researchers working on to make thel I more efficient." While all of these letters speak 
to the applicability and potential of the Petitioner's methodology for predicting and measuring tool 
wear, none explains with sufficient specificity whether or how the Petitioner's research has already 
been widely implemented or significantly impacted the field. 
I I, a former faculty member at Oand research and development technology 
director at I I explains that the pg·' issertation research 
"adopted a fundamental approach of simulating the interaction of a particle with a tool, 
and developed a better understanding of the mechanism by which the particle 'scratches' on the 
surface of the tool." He states that the Petitioner's study provided fundamental insights into the 
mechanics of this wearing process, and that "[.,,__._...""""'-.........,~damental understanding can be utilized to 
better design tools to minimize! lwear." em hasizes that the Petitioner was invited 
to publish and present the results of his work at the 2012 Customer Conference, and notes 
that his work was also highlighted in the company magazine.__ __ ___. Community News. 5 He 
indicates that the conference invitation and wider dissemination in the magazine was "due to the 
technical quality and fundamental importance of this work, and its potential applicability in other areas 
where interactions ofl I particles and metal surfaces may be a concern." 
While the inclusion of the Petitioner's published work in conferences and journals reflects the 
originality of that work, his publications and presentations alone do not establish that his research has 
been regarded as an original contribution of major significance in his field. At the time of filing, the 
Petitioner rovided search results from Goo le Scholar indicating that his paper .... I------~---' 
.__ ______________________ _. had been cited by others a total of seven 
times since its publication in 2012. The Petitioner did not provide any comparative data suggesting 
5 The record reflects that an article title'-----------------~----------' I I appeared in the "Academic Update" section of the September/October 2012 issue of,__ _ ___,Community News. 
A letter froml I mentions tha~ lis the manufacturer of the finite element tool I I which the Petitioner applied in his research. 
5 
that this level of attention from other researchers reflects widespread commentary about his work that 
is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. 
We have also considered letters of recommendation that address the Petitioner's work on the 
development ofl I systems used inl I production of electricity. I I, the Petitioner's former manager a~ I explains that the Petitioner and his team 
"spent four 4 years analyzing and developing the analysis of thQ supports manufactured and 
supplied byl t' and "established! I models with the objective to use the template file 
for analyzing the design of regular supports and the customized supports for the customers/in""d""'u=s-=t ....<.....e=c..., 
the industr for ower eneration." notes that the Petitioner ublished 
IC 
he credits as "a tremendous contribution to th-...._ _ ___. support industry." However, he does not 
explain how the Petitioner's study has impacted the industry or how it has been regarded as a 
"tremendous contribution." The record reflects that the referenced paper was accepted for the 2015 
ASME Power and Energy Conservation Conference. However, the evidence does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's work has been cited by other researchers or otherwise establish that the study has 
attracted widespread commentary or been implemented by others in the industry. 
I !formerly a project engineer for one ofi I customers, also describes the 
Pet1t10ner's research m this area, noting that "[h]e outlined a procedure for the design check and used 
analytical and finite element analysis tools to create the design checks." He discusses the above­
referenced paper, noting that "the comparison of almost forty years of Codes is a huge task" and "his 
approach is innovative and based on modem methods of technical evaluation." Finally,! I 
credits the Petitioner with making recommendations "that directly helped improve the safety and 
lessen the impact on the surrounding environment" but does not provide farther explanation or 
examples of how the Petitioner's study achieved these safety and environmental improvements or how 
it has been implemented in the industry. 
The record also contains two letters frortj I, the Petitioner's colleagu;.:e:....:a~l==0====: 
who explains that the company is a world leader in supports used in ._I ___ __ I I power production, as well as r----"l--_J andl I facilities. In 
addition to mentioning the study discussed above, indicates that the Petitioner was "placed 
in the lead role for developing a new, for I I, product line, supports," which 
he states are critical components used in the production o as. He explains that 
manufacturing of these supports was moved from a sister facility in China to s U.S. operations 
and that the Petitioner was "one of the leading influencers of making this transition successfol.'D I I also credits the Petitioner for being "intimately involved in developing automation ~ 
expedite the creation of these supports for new projects." Finally, he emphasizes that thesej_____J 
supports are developed for global and multi billion-dollar industries, and as such the Petitioner's 
"innovative work had a substantial contribution, not only economically but also in ensuring the safe 
implementation of these suppo " 's letter provides support for his conclusion that the 
Petitioner was a valuable asset t and a highly skilled engineer, but he does not explain how 
his role in the transfer of his employer's~----~ support manufacturing from China to the 
United States amounts to an original contribution of major significance in the field, or sufficiently 
explain how the Petitioner tremendously impacted "the safe implementation of these supports," which 
he indicates must be designed in accordance with industry codes and regulations. 
6 
Overall, the letters recognize the originality, importance, and/or prospective benefit of the Petitioner's 
graduate research and professional contributions atl I but do not contain detailed information 
showing the unusual influence or hiah imprt the Petitioner's contributions have already had in the 
engineering field or in the I I an support industries. With respect to his graduate research, 
the letters, including those not specifically mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's original work has added value to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened 
avenues for further research into the causes and measurement of wear on tools and machines used in I I The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of attention his work has 
received in this area reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the 
mechanical engineering field regard~ork as authoritative. Similarly, while the Petitioner 
published a study during his tenure atl__Jand introduced efficiencies into itsD support design 
process, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had in the wider field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
Although the Petitioner submits additional letters on motion, they do not offer further insight into how 
his original research has already influenced or impacted the field. For example,! I 
states that the methodology the Petitioner generated in his dissertation "finds a wider application in 
the various industrial sectors" and notes that "companies associated with thd I industry and 
implementing [the Petitioner's] research can have an upper hand over their competitors." He does 
not identify specific companies that had already implemented the Petitioner's methodology into their 
design and development oj loj I tools or otherwise elaborated! on any f ocumented 
impacts of his work. The record also contains background information on the andl I 
production industries and their importance but it does not follow that any research that contributes to 
incremental advancements in an important industry is an original contribution of major significance 
within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision, nor 
does the new evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13072199 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cancer researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not establish, as required, that he seeks to enter 
the United States to continue working in his field of claimed extraordinary ability, and that his entry 
into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a ~racticing clinical physician who also conducts research, focusing on cancer of the 
I land I I. He has worked at various teaching hospitals, including..c===], 
East HosRital, where he served as an associate professor and associate chief doctor, and thel____J 
Branch ofl I General Hospital, where he is one of three deputy directors. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At the time of the Director's decision, the Petitioner claimed to have 
met five criteria, summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (iv) and (vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other three claimed evidentiary criteria, and a sixth 
criterion, numbered (ix), relating to high salary or remuneration for services. 
We will not consider this newly claimed criterion during these appeal proceedings. The Petitioner did 
not claim to have satisfied this criterion until he filed the appeal. The purpose of an appeal is to establish 
error in the decision being appealed. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) requires that an appellant 
2 
"identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." Because the 
Petitioner had never previously claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the Director cannot have erred 
with respect to the criterion. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only two criteria. We discuss the other three claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Documentation in the record indicates that China's Ministry of Education issued 314 "2007 Science and 
Technology Awards for Higher Education," including 54 "First Class" "Science and Technology Progress 
Awards." One of those awards, for "Basic and clinical research on I I 
~---------------~ 'went to 15 recipients, including the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "was selected for this award based on rigorous selection criteria and 
competed against highly qualified candidates," but he submits no documentary evidence from the 
awarding entity to corroborate these assertions. (The Petitioner submits third-party statements purporting 
to describe the award selection process, but the individuals making those statements do not claim to 
participate in that process, nor do they cite first-hand sources for the information they provide.) He has 
not submitted the selection criteria, and therefore we cannot determine how rigorous they are. Also, the 
record does not provide any basis for comparing the Petitioner's qualifications to those of unsuccessful 
candidates for the award. 
It is significant that the awarding entity is China's Ministry of Education, rather than a ministry primarily 
concerned with health or science. In 2007, the year covered by the award, the Petitioner was in his first 
year of postdoctoral training. The available evidence suggests, therefore, that the award is intended for 
students and trainees, rather than established researchers and scientists who have completed their training. 
The Petitioner has not established the recognition accorded to this award. 
The Petitioner submits a copy of a "Certificate of Completion of Scientific and Technological 
Achievements" from China's Minist of Education. The certificate indicates that the Petitioner 
completed a ~--------~" The Petitioner does not explain how this constitutes a prize or award, 
rather than what it appears to be on its face -specifically, proof that he completed a project. 
The Petitioner also cites "two funding awards from the prestigious National Natural Science Foundation 
of China," which "grants funding to approximately 38,000 projects each year." There is no evidence that 
the Petitioner personally received this funding in recognition of excellence in his field. Rather, the 
research institution where he worked received the funds, for the purposes specified in the grant 
applications. The evidence submitted indicates that grant funding is determined by a given project's 
budget requirements, rather than excellence in the field of endeavor. These grants support ongoing or 
future research, rather than recognize past achievements. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that he received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in cancer research. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claims four original contributions of major significance. Three of these contributions relate 
to the use of IL-24, an interleukin protein, in the treatment ofl !cancer: 
I He was lead researcher in a study that "provided lbjec1ive evidence ... that I L-24 can selectively 
destroy! I cancer cells while leaving normal cells intact"; 
I He led a "study of IL-24 and its synergistic effect with interferons for the treatment ofl I 
cancer"· and 
I He "dis~overed that IL-24 increases the sensitivity ofl I cancer cells to chemotherapy." 
The Petitioner was also "a lead researcher in a comprehensive study to demonstrate the importance of 
peripheral tissues i nc=J tr1nspllnt patients," and "was one of the ti rst cancer researchers to discover that 
the chances of a successful transplant are substantially higher when peripheral tissues of tha I ~ remain intact." The Petitioner asserts that he I I provide 
objective evidence of IL-24['s] effectiveness in treating! I cancer." Being the first attests to the 
originality of a contribution, but not necessarily to its significance. The burden is on the Petitioner to 
show the significance of being the first, or "one of the first," to make a particular finding. 
To establish the significance of his contributions, the Petitioner relies on letters and on citations to his 
published work. The letters attest, in general terms, to the significance of the Petitioner's work, but they 
lack specific information about its impact on the field. For example, a professor at I I 
University states that the Petitioner's "confirmation of IL-24 as a clearly-defined, selective killer of 
I I cancer cells resulted in a s
1urae of 
1successful follow-up research and development in the area of 
IL-24 proteins and their effects on cancer cells." The letter includes no further details about the 
"follow-up research and development." 
The letters provide technical details about the Petitioner's research, but rely heavily on speculation about 
its potential Juture impa~t rather thr evidence of its known, existing impact. For instance, a professor 
atl Hospital in~--~states that the Petitioner "recognized that as IL-24 is used as a type 
of immunotherapy, perhaps IL-24 could be used in conjunction with chemotherapy agains~ !cancer 
to create better results .... [The Petitioner's] continued research can significantly improve the treatment 
o~ !cancer" (emphasis added). A professor atl I Hospital, where the Petitioner trained, offers 
the similar assertion that the Petitioner's findings "suggested that IL-24 has great potential in treating I !cancer" (emphasis added). 
The letters do not indicate that the Petitioner's discoveries have been widell impl1mented throughout the 
field, or, have significantly improved survival or recovery rates among cancer patients. The 
Petitioner contends that citations to his published work "show that [his] research ... [is] having a major 
impact on follow up studies that are paving the way to new anticancer gene therapies." The Petitioner 
identifies 65 articles that he published prior to the filing date, and submits printouts from Google Scholar, 
4 
the specialized search engine for scholarly publications, showing that 41 of those articles have been cited 
between 1 and 34 times each, for a total of 385 citations. Of the cited articles, 26 were cited fewer than 
ten times each. Over his total output, the average citation rate is about six citations per article. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the citations of the Petitioner's work, but stated that the 
Petitioner had not shown that these citation figures are particularly high in comparison to those of other 
researchers in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight 
to these citations, but the Petitioner has not established that the citation rate shown in the record indicates 
major significance in the field. 
Instead, the Petitioner identifies five citing articles as examples of "other researchers treating [the 
Petitioner's] work as authoritative." The Petitioner does not explain how these selected articles establish 
the significance of the Petitioner's work. One of these examples is a 2015 article from the World Journal 
of Gastroenterolo , which cites 142 sources in its biblio ra h , and includes this assa e: I I 
26-29 ,, 
The source numbered 29 is a 2013 article co-authored by the Petitioner; sources 26-28 are articles by 
other researchers. It is not readily evident that inclusion in this collective citation indicates that the 
Petitioner's article, in particular, is of major significance. Citation does not inherently establish "a major 
impact on follow up studies," and the Petitioner does not provide a basis for comparison to show that his 
research is of major significance in relation to other published research in the field. 
Concerning the Petitioner's conference presentations, the Director stated that "there is no way to 
determine a conference paper or presentation's originality or influence in the field." On appeal, the 
Petitioner counters that "academic conferences exist for the very purpose of allowing researchers to 
present and discuss their novel and original work." We agree with the Petitioner that a conference 
presentation can include original work of major significance, but the burden is on the Petitioner to 
establish the significance of his contributions. The Petitioner's participation in such conferences is not, 
on its face, evidence of eligibility. 
The Petitioner contends that his "conference presentations ... tended to prove that the work was original 
and of major significance because, as a matter of course, invitations to conferences are given to 
researchers who have interesting and original findings to share." The Petitioner cites no source to support 
this claim, and even then, the term "interesting" does not necessarily imply major significance.1 
The Petitioner has documented original scientific contributions, but has not established their major 
significance in the field. 
1 When discussing the Petitioner's characterization of his claims and evidence, the plausibility and credibility of those 
claims are relevant. In this respect, we note that some of the Petitioner's claims are not only unsupported, but contradicted 
by the materials he submitted. Seeking to explain why he does not have a profile on Google Scholar, the Petitioner contends 
that Google Scholar "only collects English language articles. In non-English speaking countries, the works of top researchers 
do not find their way onto the platform because of the language barrier." But the record shows that the Petitioner has published 
several English-language articles, and the Google Scholar printouts he submitted include Chinese-language results. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to a request for evidence, 
the Petitioner claimed to have held several qualifying roles: 
I One of three deputy di rectors of th~ I Central Branch ofl I General Hospital; 
I Associate chief doctor and associate professor au I East Hospital; 
I Editorial board member of the Journal of .... C_li_n_ic_a_l S_u_r...,.g_erv ............ ; -------------, 
I Executive chairman and speaker at thel I land .___ _____________ ____. 
I Speaker at a World Medical Network forum. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish those roles to be leading or critical. On appeal, 
the Petitioner discusses only his hospital positions, and thereby waives the other listed claims. 
We need not reach the issue of the nature of the Petitioner's roles at the two hospitals unless the Petitioner 
also establishes that those institutions have distinguished reputation. Review of the record does not show 
that the Petitioner has met that requirement. The Petitioner submits no documentary evidence to provide 
an objective basis for comparison to show that the hospitals where the Petitioner has worked have 
distinguished reputations relative to other hospitals. 
The only evidentiary exhibits that the Petitioner cites with regard tol I East Hospital are a letter 
from that hospital's director of human resources and a translated printout from its website. Such 
materials, generated by the hospital itself, cannot directly establish how others perceive the institution, 
and a distinguished reputation is a product of outside perception rather than an organization's own self­
regard or promotional endeavors. 
In his response IOI the regur for evidence, the Petitioner offered no direct evidence that thel I 
Central Branch of General Hospital has a distinguished reputation. Instead, the Petitioner cited 
the size of its staff, and stated: "A distinguished university such as the School of Medicine ofl I 
r===]university would only affiliate with other renowned organizations and hospitals. Thus, 
c==]General Hospital's affiliation with the School of Medicine of~ ____ ____.University 
demonstrates the distinguished reputation of I I General Hospital." The Petitioner cited no 
evidence to support this conclusory assertion. It is not self-evident that university affiliation confers the 
university's reputation on the affiliated entit(c. Even then, the Petitioner's position relates to one of an 
unspecified number of branches o~~--~_General Hospital, rather than to that institution as a whole. 
Instead, the Petjtjoner relies or letters from two professors au I University, both written to support 
the petition.I !states th;:itl O IGeneral Hospital [is] a distinguished hospital with a 
high re[utation in China," "[k]nown for its research funds, published papers, and level of expertise of its 
staff." _ I provides few details in this regard, excep.......,.._..L..L.>41.L...L.W....Jr o "other hospital doctors [who] 
have won prestigious national awards." I I states: General Hospital is known for its 
strong technical knowledge and wel I-known experts.'.___ _ ____. provides statistics about research funding. 
Both professors list the hospital's collaborations with institutions outside China. The details provided do 
6 
not inherently establish a distinguished reputation, and the use of the word "distinguished" in the letters 
is not presumptive evidence of distinction. 
The Petitioner has not submitted documentary evidence of the organizations' distinguished reputations, 
and therefore we need not reach the separate issue of his roles there. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues (relating to 
continued work in the field and substantial prospective benefit to the United States) because discussion 
of those issues cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 2 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has depicted his various achievements as being consistent 
with the highest levels of accomplishment and influence in his field, but the evidence of record does 
not substantiate such a conclusion. Where he does satisfy specific evidentiary criteria, he does so 
through activities that are routine for his field (writing scholarly articles and performing peer review 
of articles by others) rather than accolades limited to, and indicative of, the highest levels in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). Nevertheless, 
we briefly note that, while the Petitioner asserts that he intends "to work as a medical researcher at a cancer research lab in 
California or Texas," he has not established that any research institution in either of those states has, even informally, expressed 
any interest in employing him, or that freelance research independent of such institutions is a viable or plausible avenue. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) calls for "detail[ed] plans," rather than a general assertion of intent. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11991701 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior exploration geologist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, the appeal will be dismissed. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a senior exploration geologist fo~._ __________ __. 
in Texas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of these criteria, related to authorship of scholarly 
articles. The record supports this determination as the Petitioner has provided evidence that he 
authored articles published in academic journals and other professional publications. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence submitted in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) which establishes that he meets all five claimed criteria. 
Upon review, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner meets two additional criteria. 
First, the Petitioner established that he has served in critical roles for~s operations in Ukraine and 
Oman and has therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner provided 
detailed, credible letters from persons with direct knowledge of his duties and project outcomes, 
explaining why his performance in senior technical roles was critical to the outcome of the 
organization's I !exploration and I I operations in these markets. The submitted 
2 
evidence also establishes the distinguished reputation of O and the related entities that employed 
the Petitioner. 
In addition, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he 
commands a high salary from his current U.S. employer in relation to others in the same occupation 
and geographic area and has therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Director 
determined that the Petitioner's stated annual salary was prospective since he had not yet been 
employed for a full year, despite his submission of bi-monthly pay statements froml I that 
corroborated his stated annual salary. The Director also did not acknowledge the Petitioner's 
submission of data from a Department of Labor source establishing that the Petitioner's salary exceeds 
the published "high salary" threshold for similarly employed workers in Texas.1 Accordingly, we will 
withdraw the Director's determinations that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he has 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements. We will consider the evidence submitted in support of all 
remaining criteria, together with the balance of the record, in the final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.2 
As noted, the Petitioner is currently employed as a senior exploration geolpgist forl J II in Texas. He received his doctorate in geological sciences froml .... __________ ____.r r===J University..,.._ ____ .,.........in Ukraine in 2007 and worked as a geoscience researcher at the 
Ukrainian Institute of while com letin his graduate studies. The Petitioner also served 
as a senior lecturer in geology at.__ _____ ____.University from 2007 until 2009 and worked for 
Ukraine's largest state-owned oil and gas company from 2008 to 2009. Prior to joining! I 
operations in March 2019, he had worked for related companies in the Oorganization in Ukraine 
and Oman since 2009. 
1 While we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he commands a high salary based 
on his current U.S.-based position, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
earned a high salary while employed in Ukraine and Oman. As noted by the Director, the record lacks comparative salary 
data for the Petitioner's occupation and geographic area of employment during the relevant time periods. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner established that he has authored scholarly articles, performed in a 
critical role, and earned a high salary, and submitted evidence related to his contributions to his field 
and one publication about him and relating to his work. The record, however, does not demonstrate 
that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The record reflects that a profile of the Petitioner and overview of his rofessional career appeared in 
a 2017 book commemorating th .__ ____________________ __. University ~----~ According to a letter from the publisher, the book focused on the university's history, 
its scientific and educational activities, and the achievements of its researchers, and included a section 
"devoted to the outstanding graduates" of the institution, where the article about the Petitioner, a 2007 
graduate, appeared. A letter from! r who does not appear to be affiliated with the 
university or the publisher, states that the Petitioner's selection for this publication is "an extraordinary 
recognition," and emphasizes that only 300 graduates from the last 50 years were selected for the 
book's "outstanding graduates" section. We acknowledge that it was a significant honor for the 
Petitioner to be selected as a featured graduate and indicative of his considerable success in his field. 
The evidence does not demonstrate, however, that all former students featured in this university 
publication had achieved sustained national or international acclaim, or that being featured in the book 
signifies that any individual graduate of this university has risen to the very top of the field. The record 
also does not establish that this book, which according to the publisher had a publication run of 1,000 
copies, can be considered a professional, major trade publication or other major medium, or that it had 
sufficient distribution to gamer the Petitioner significant national or international recognition. 
In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" forlesserclassifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
The Petitioner has not established that one published article about him reflects a level of media 
recognition that is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles, we emphasize that publication of 
research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 3 Here, the Petitioner provided a copy 
of his curriculum vitae (listing 21 "scholarly publications" dated between 2002 and 2008), copies of 
five of his publications, and a screenshot of Google Scholar search results for his name that returned 
five articles authored or co-authored by him. In his letter,__ ____ ~ __ _.the Petitioner's former 
mentor and a professor at the Universit~ lin France, refers to the Petitioner's patents and 
"more than twenty research articles," noting that he is "one of only a few geologists in Ukraine with 
such achievements in the field." However, the Petitioner did not submit additional supporting 
evidence differentiating his publication rate from those of others in his field, or otherwise establishing 
that it is reflective of one who is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating that he has received national or 
international acclaim on the basis of his publications. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent 
to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his 
articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field 
and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an 
article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and 
that other geoscientists have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
Here, the information provided from Google Scholar includes only five of the 21 articles identified on 
the Petitioner's curriculum vitae, and of those five, it indicates that only two have been cited by others. 
Specifically, the information provided by Google Scholar indicates that the Petitioner's 2007 doctoral 
thesis was cited in two other sources, while an article he published in 2005 has garnered one citation. 
The evidence from Google Scholar shows that the field has noticed his work, but the Petitioner has 
not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his research represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. For instance, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence that would allow us to compare citations to his authored works to the citation 
histories of others in his field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. 
In addition, he did not demonstrate how his publications have contributed to his sustained national or 
international acclaim as his most recent article was published in 2008, ten years prior to the filing of 
the petition. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's performance in critical roles for his employers, the record contains 
numerous letters of recommendation discussing his work for~s operations in Ukraine, its joint 
venture operation wit~ !Oman I, J and his latest role withl Is U.S. 
operations in Texas.4 These letters demonstrate the Petitioner's expertise in~ ________ _. 
operations in th~ I industry and his value to his employers, particularly in Ukraine and Oman 
where the Petitioner played a critical role in the development of new projects that resulted in significant 
financial investments and returns. However, the testimonial evidence discussing the Petitioner's roles 
withe=] identify how the company benefited from his service in a senior geoscientist role, rather 
than documenting the acclaim or recognition he has received in the field as a whole as a result of his 
work within the organization. 
For examplej I states that "some of [the Petitioner's] projects in Oman have been 
widely discussed in the industry, e.g., the well-known I I project that has turned to 
become the most profitableOdiscovery in Oman and where [the Petitioner] was responsible for 
appraisal and volume evaluation of the field." While I I notes that the Petitioner received a 
company award for his work on the project and the Petitioner has documented this award, the record 
does not elaborate on or corroborate his claim that thel I project, or the Petitioner's work on 
the project, has been "widely discussed" or that the Petitioner garnered national or international 
acclaim or recognition outside the company. I l who worked with the Petitioner on the I I project, discusses the geological challenges presented by the Oman I I the 
4 Although we discuss only a sampling of the reference letters, we have reviewed all of the letters in the record. 
5 
innovative tlchniquel the Petitioner used to locateO and the commercial value of the project to the 
company. states that the project and its results were a "notable achievement" that gained 
"much esteem from local and international sources." However, he does not explain the nature or scope 
of this international attention or elaborate as to whether the Petitioner hijself ga7ered any individual 
recognition from outside his employer based on his contributions to the project. 
Other letters describing the Petitioner's work with! lin Ukraine and in Texas are similar in that 
they are sufficient to establish his expertise as a geoscientist and the critical nature of his roles with 
the organization, but they lack any specific examples of how the field has recognized the Petitioner 
for his work.I I Exploration Manager with ______ Texas office, states that the 
Petitioner's "contributions to the team in his current assignment project, as well as in previous 
assignments, have been significant to the business and valuable to the team." While I I and 
otherD representatives comment on the unique skills that the Petitioner has brought to his specific 
projects and assignments with the company, and the Petitioner provided evidence that I I 
activities in Oman and Ukraine both garnered some media attention, the record does not establish how 
the field has widely recognized the Petitioner's contributions to thel !organization in a manner 
reflective of sustained acclaim. Without additional evidence demonstrating that his work foI'LJhas 
been widely recognized, the Petitioner has not shown that his achievements within the organization 
have received a level of acclaim reflective of one who is among "that small percentage who [has] risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition to establishing his critical roles, the Petitioner has established thatl ~urrently pays 
him a high salary in relation to others in the field. Specifically, the evidence from the Department of 
Labor-sponsored Career One Stop website shows that "high" salaries for geoscientists in Texas, based 
on statewide data, start at "$208,000+". Although the Petitioner's annual salary of $233,100 falls 
within this high range and may demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the 
field, he has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
Finally, as it relates to his original contributions, the Petitioner submits evidence related to his Ph.D. 
thesis and other published research, Ukrainian patents issued between 2002 and 2007 while he was a 
graduate student and geoscience researcher with the Ukrainian Institute I I and letters of 
recommendation intended to speak to the significance of his scientific contributions. While 
publications and patents indicate the original nature of his research, they are not necessarily indicative 
of the major significance of those contributions, nor are they sufficient to establish that his 
contributions have garnered him sustained national or international acclaim in the field . 
.__ _______ _,of the Ukrainian.__ _____ __, Institute, describes the Petitioner's thesis as 
"innovative and impactfol" and states that the Petitioner's studies "became one of the main sources of 
practical reference for anyone who is working toward the exploration .__ ___________ _, 
in Ukraine." He states that "other geologists in Ukraine consistently rely on [the Petitioner's] 
groundbreaking findings in furtherance of their own research and scientific work." Specifically, he 
indicates that there have been three "major citations" of the Petitioner's work in scholar! ublications 
related td I exploration and I I published during the last decade . .__ ____ ~=..........,, 
attention to a "notable citation" to the Petitioner's work in the 2013 mono ra h titled 
6 
------------~---------------.--~H=e"""n"""'otes that in this 245-page 
publication, the authors "summarized all successful approaches fo exploration" and "spent 
four pages on referencing [the Petitioner's] technique of measuring~-----~' I I 
emphasizes that the Petitioner's dissertation research was featured because it "set a new unique method 
or a benchmark enabling advancement and expansion o±i~---~~xploration in Ukraine." 
As noted, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles can also be 
an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether 
such influence has been sustained. However, it is not clear how three total citations to the Petitioner's 
published work, even if one or more of them can be deemed "notable," is indicative.of sustained 
national or international acclaim. Nor does the citation evidence as a whole support! Is claim 
that reliance on the Petitioner's published work is widespread among geoscientists in Ukraine or in 
the field at large. 
~-----~of.__ _______________ ____. notes that the Petitioner, in his 
dissertation, "developed a theoretical basis, mathematical models and practical applications of 
exploration and development ofl t' and states that his research 
"greatly enhanced our understanding of the geophysical data and facilitates the exploration I I 
c=]." He indicates that the Petitioner's knowledge and experience in explorationl,__.========..· 
and 0±1 I as "currently very useful both in Ukraine and USA."I I 
also describes the Petitioner "as an experienced scientist with interesting results of research and 
industrial applications that have been used on real projects in! I," but he does not 
indicate that their shared field recognizes the Petitioner as a nationally or internationally acclaimed 
figure who is among that small percentage at the very top. 
~------~deputy director of geology at the Ukrainian Institute I l specifically 
addresses the Petitioner's Ph.D. dissertation and some of the patents he co-authored during his tenure 
as a researcher. Specifically, he states that the Petitioner's "dissertation research of substantiation of 
prospects for discovering of,__ _____ ~ analysis of the thickness of overlying I l and 
a method that allows to determine a position of I I in relation to al ~ are original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field of geology because they represent a method of finding 
that are not otherwise detectable by conventional means that are employed 
~th_r_o_u_g_h_o_u_t-th-e-in_d_u_s-try~." I I also notes that the Petitioner was involved in Os early 
exploration activities in Ulaame and participated in two projects "which proved the first in the country 
usage of massive multistagd I." He states that "because of immense success of the 
projects where [the Petitioner] played a leading role and influence they had on the whole exploration 
industry, this approach isnow widely used b= rlkrainianJ !companies] on other fields, which 
make possible to increase! J significantly." While this evidence~s that the 
Petitioner's research and patented methods impacted! 
0 I exploration and L___Jin parts of 
Ukraine, the record does not establish how his contributions, or their practical application, resulted in 
his national or international acclaim. 
We do not question that the Petitioner has made original contributions to his field and that his 
contributions to some high-profile projects have been beneficial to his employers and have 
applicability within thd I industry. However, the issue is whether recognition of the 
Petitioner's contributions has risen to the level of sustained national or international acclaim that has 
7 
elevated the Petitioner to the very top of his field. The Petitioner has shown that his work surrounding 
exploration an~ I is important and has practical '------:-,,----,------,-------,--..,........,.~ application, but not that it hqs earned him sustained acclaim. 
The record contains a number of recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's achievements 
and offer high praise of his knowledge and expertise but do not address how he has received sustained 
national or international acclaim for those achievements. For example,! I states that the 
Petitioner's "extraordinary talent and extensive practical experience ... place him f monI the very few 
who have reached this sort of caliber and expertise." .__ ________ ~of tates that the 
Petitioner's "unique knowledge skills and technical experience ... demonstrate that he is far more 
important to the industry and business than most others" and that he is "one of the most experienced 
experts I have every worked with." A recommendation letter from.__ ___ ~ ___ ...., the 
Petitioner's former mentor, states that his "geological background, interdisciplinary expertise and 
teaching skills allow him to manage and deliver ro · ects and undertake scientific enquiries in a manner 
that places him in the top 5% of the field." states that the Petitioner "is a scientist of 
extraordinary ability in the field o '----~ exploration." 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters alone 
do not show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The letters are not accompanied by 
sufficient independent evidence that the Petitioner has received sustained national or international 
acclaim for his achievements and is widely regarded as having a career of acclaimed work. See H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The record reflects that the Petitioner is highly regarded by his colleagues, 
has enjoyed a very successful academic and professional career, and has worked on some high-profile 
.__ ___ ~I.projects for a distinguished employer in the field. While the Petitioner need not establish 
that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12797029 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer (CEO), seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
an individual in that small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on 
appeal.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 The Petitioner provided a short statement identifying the basis for his appeal on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or 
Motion, and indicated that a brief would be submitted to the AAO within 30 days of the appeal's filing date (June 11, 
2020). As of the date of this decision, the record reflects that we have not received the Petitioner's brief and the record 
will be considered complete . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the CEO and founder ofi I, a training center and business education provider 
that organizes business and self-improvement training events. The Petitioner indicates that 
.__ ___ __.!has three offices in Russia and an office in th , where it intends 
to market its .__ ____________________ __, 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet seven of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the claimed evidentiary criteria, relating to 
published material, judging and performing in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
2 
distinguished reputation, but determined that he had not met the remaining four claimed criteria. 
Because the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to a final 
merits determination. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the three referenced criteria. Specifically, Petitioner established that he and his work were the subject 
of an article published by Kommersant, that he judged several competitions in the field of business, 
and that he is the leader of a company with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "applied the wrong examination criteria to several 
of the qualifying criterion [sic] in dismissing several of the claims," but does not specify which of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) he is contesting. As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the remaining criteria in 
the context of the final merits determination farther below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.2 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his 
eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner established._! --........,=!..!I i;.!.!n.1..I ---------i:IRussia in 2010 and 
has served as its CEO since that time, currently based at it~I ] office. The record 
does not include the Petitioner's curriculum vitae or otherwise provide details regarding his earlier 
career but rather reflects that most of his documented achievements in business have resulted from his 
work over the last decade, particularly in the last several years. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has been featured in a major media publication, judged others 
within his field, and performed in a leading role. We have also considered evidence related to his 
claimed award and membership, his published work, and his business-related contributions. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to published materials in major media, the record reflects that Kommersant, a daily 
newspaper with national circulation in Russij, publi
0s1ed an interview with the Petitioner about his 
work withl I in its online edition in 2018. Overall, however, the evidence reflects 
that most media coverage of the Petitioner and his work to date has been in publications that are local 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
or regional in nature. For example, the Petitioner submitted a 2016 interview with him published by 
the website Uniform Republican Business Portal (www.erbp.ru), which is described as "a 
multifunctional Internet resource, designed to become an information and communication platform 
for business representatives of the Republic ofl l" 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner was selected by th edition of the magazine Sobaka 
~ h as one of the "Top 30 Most Famous Peo le in 2016. Specifically, the 
evidence shows that he was one of 30 individuals from~----~nominated for prizes in seven 
categories that included business, as well as sports, arts-related and lifestyle categories. While the 
record does not demonstrate that he won the prize in the business category, it does show that his photo 
and a brief profile appeared in the online magazine as a result of his nomination. However, the 
Petitioner does not establish that this recognition, while notable, evidences his receipt of a nationally 
recognized award as claimed, or that he garnered national acclaim and recognition based on his 
nomination and appearance in a magazine with a regional focus. 
In addition to these three publications, the Petitioner provided evidence that several classes and events 
in which he participated as a presenter or lecturer were announced online in the events section ofO 
Tod,Q.rlh,ttp:/Otoday/events) in 2016. Finally~rovided screenshots indicating that the website 
Th~oom included him on its list of the toIL-Jinstagram profiles from natives of the city. The 
Petitioner appears~on the list with over 18,000 subscribers. The article identifies him as the head 
ofl I and as an entrepreneur and coach, and provides a quote from him about the types of 
photographs he prefers to post on Instagram. The record does not establish that local event 
announcements or his inclusion on the list of Instagram users compiled by The D Room reflected or 
contributed to his national or international recognition in his field. 
In sum, the record does not establish that a single published article in a major medium is consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Even considering the totality of the other published materials, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with 
being among "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.3 The record reflects that the 
Petitioner has provided his services as 1 a panel jud e for the information technology competition 
held within the ~--~--~--~Contest" a'L_ ____ -r-___ __,_,.......,..........,..........,.............,~018; 
and (2) as an expert counc1 mem er at a preliminary regional stage.__ _________ __., for 
the I !Entrepreneurship Prize competition in 201 7. The Petitioner also 
provided evidence that he initiated and served as chairman of the jury for a "competition to identify 
the best organization among small businesses" which was held by the I I Regional Branch of 
"Opora Russia" in 2018. Finally, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was a co-organizer ( along 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the ve1y top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
with the of a "Power of Team" .__ ____ --,--------,....------~----------,J 
competition held in th-..._ ___ _. in 2018. The information provided regarding the "Power of Team" 
competition indicates that its jury would include "5 reputable expert persons -representatives of 
business, government, sports." The evidence does not indicate whether the Petitioner participated as 
a judge for this competition or that his role as co-organizer involved judging the work of others in his 
field. 
While the evidence confirms the Petitioner's service as a judge in three of these four business-related 
competitions, it does not sufficiently support his claim that he has often been invited to judge the work 
of others as a result of his national or international reputation in the field. Two of the competitions in 
which he was involved are new regional competitions in which he is identified as the contests' initiator 
or co-organizer; he was not invited to participate as a judge in these competitions based on his national 
acclaim. The willingness of regional entities to co-sponsor or co-organize these competitions with 
him is acknowledged and may be indicative of his reputation as a business expert in I I 
but does not support a finding that he enjor national acclaim in his field. In addition, although the 
record indicates that thd~ ______ ..,. Entrepreneurship Prize draws from a national pool of 
competitors, the Petitioner was invited to judge a preliminary stage of the competition at the regional 
level. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I CEO ofl 
which held the Open Innovations start-up contest in 2018. H~e_e_x_p-la-in-s-th_a_t_t_h_e~I ------
Forum and Technology Show is an annual forum which provides "a platform for discussion, 
interaction and exchange amongst experts in leading edge technologies, scientists, top managers from 
Russian and foreign corporations, startups and state authorities."! !states that he personally 
selected the Petitioner as a panel member for the forum's 2018 start-up competition because he 
"needed an experienced and respected businessman to judge the contest." He also indicates that I I "chose only the people who have truly proven themselves to have extraordinary ability ... 
to help us select the winning teams to join our acceleration program as judges of the startup 
competition." I I's letter supports a conclusion that thel I competition was 
likely the most prominent competition in which the Petitioner served as a judge. However, his 
statement is not sufficiently detailed to establish that invitations to serve on its judging panels were 
limited to those nationally or internationally acclaimed business professionals in the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. The record does not contain, for example, profiles of others who served 
with the Petitioner on the judging panel for the start-up competition. 
Finally, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner garnered sustained national or international 
recognition or acclaim as a result of his participation as a judge in these competitions, all of which 
occurred within the two years preceding the filing of the petition. The Petitioner has not shown, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others in his field or otherwise sets him apart from 
them. Without this evidence, he has not demonstrated that his service as a judge indicates that he is 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For similar reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his invitation to join the "speaker series" 
of the School of Business! I reflects that he enjoys sustained national or 
international acclaim. I I rector ofl I explains that the Petitioner's company, 
5 
.__ ___ ___.I "has been a trusted partner" to the school, which has, in tum "extended an invitation to 
[the Petitioner] to join our speaker series, an honor extended to the very few business and education 
professionals worldwide." I I notes that the organizing committee for the series has "very 
stringent criteria for selecting its featured speakers" and requires those selected to have "extraordinary 
abilities and achievements in their respective fields." He names several other individuals as members 
of the speaker series, noting that they are "highly regarded" and "legends" in their fields, but the record 
does not contain information about them. Further, althoug~ I states that the Petitioner 
accepted! 7s invitation to join its speaker series, the record does not identify or include evidence 
of an~~--~fevents in which the Petitioner participated as a speaker or the nature and scope of his 
involvement. Nor does the record contain additional background regarding! I or its speaker 
series in general, such that we could evaluate the level of national or international recognition that may 
be associated with participation in the series. The Petitioner's andl Is association with 
I land its speaker series supports a determination that he is recognized within some segments 
of the Russian business community, but there is insufficient evidence to establish how his participation 
in the series places him among that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's publications, which include a book4 titled I I and four articles in the Russian online edition of Forbes magazine published between I 12018 andl [ 2019. The record reflects that the Petitioner has also authored articles published 
on the Russian websites Vc.ru, RusBase (www.rb.ru), Invest-Foresight (www.if24.ru) and Standards 
and Quality (www.ria-stk.ru). The Director determined that the articles authored by the Petitioner did 
not qualify as scholarly articles under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and did not address 
this evidence in his final merits determination. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's authorship of articles, we emphasize that publication of one's written 
work does not automatically place an individual at the top of the field.5 We acknowledge that Forbes 
is a major medium, but the record does does not establish to what extent the Petitioner's four recent 
articles garnered him sustained national or international acclaim or that the publication of his work in 
Forbes reflects such acclaim. The Petitioner is credited in the articles' bylines as a "Forbes 
contributor," but the record does not contain any information or documentation about the magazine's 
standards, policies or procedures for accepting articles from contributors. We cannot determine, for 
example, that Forbes or the other referenced publications only accept articles from contributors who 
are nationally recognized figures in a given field. The record also lacks evidence that the Petitioner's 
articles have been cited or discussed by others in the field, or that they have generated a level of interest 
in the Petitioner and his work commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also states that he became a "best-selling author" based on his publication of the book 
I I In support of this claim, he provides evidence that the book is available for purchase 
on the websites of three Russian booksellers. Some of the recommendation letters and expert opinion 
letters, including a letter from.__ _____ ___, of.__ _________ _. also refer to the 
"enormous success" of the Petitioner's book. However, the record does not contain any independent 
evidence, such as information about the number of books published or sold, evidence of the book's 
4 Other evidence in the record refers to the English translation of the book's title aJ land~I ____ ___. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 
critical success, or other information to establish that the Petitioner's work as an author has received 
acclaim at the national or international level. Some of the submitted recommendation letters refer to 
the Petitioner's written work as "informative" and emphasize that it is significant that his views on 
technology, management and start-up enterprises are deemed "worthy of dissemination" in business­
related publications, but this does not equate to a finding that his publications have earned him a place 
among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. 
Overall, the Petitioner did not establish that his publication of a book and magazine articles in the few 
years preceding the filing of the petition sets him apart through a "career of acclaimed work." The 
statute requires the Petitioner to submit "extensive documentation" of his sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, as noted, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the articles or his book have been cited or generated widespread discussion in the field, 
nor did it otherwise demonstrate a level of interest in his work commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Lastly, as it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading role withl I and the business 
contributions he has made as the company's leader, the record contains numerous letters of 
recommendation and expert opinion letters. 6 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director's 
decision "ignored the overwhelming body of expert opinion evidence" previously submitted. 
With respect to the Petitioner's business-related contributions, the Director's decision reflects that he 
considered the submitted letters of recommendation. He specifically referenced letters fromD I I an~ !which discuss a horizontal management structure that the 
Petitioner developed or adapted, as well as I I a customer relationship management system 
designed for businesses that employ a horizontal management structure. 
With respect to the horizontal management structure, some of the submitted letters identify the 
Petitioner as the originator of this business model, while others state that he adapted this structure after 
studying successful American companies (such as Goof e, Facebook and Netflix) that were built on 
horizontal management. For example, the letter from I states that the Petitioner is "a 
pioneer of an innovative business management -he designed and formulated a tum-key horizontal 
business management structure based on the model he successfully developed atl I" In 
contrastJ I refers to the Petitioner as a "student and early adaptor of horizontal business 
management structure" but not as the creator or developer of this business model. 
Similarly J I a business coach who has partnered withl I explains that the 
Petitioner studied other successful organizations that use a horizontal management structure, based his 
company on this model and became "its most outspoken advocate and promoter in Russia." ~ I I states that the Petitioner's promotion of this type of non-traditional structure has "resonated 
throughout the Russian Federation," and notes that the Petitioner has taught seminars and led training 
sessions "to promote this revolutionary model" in over 40 cities. Collectively, the letters suggest that 
the Petitioner was among the first to promote a horizontal management structure as an alternative to 
the vertical, top-down management structure that is prevalent in Russia, but not that he is credited as 
6 Although we discuss only a sampling of this correspondence, we have reviewed all of the letters in the record. 
7 
the originator of this structure. Further, the fact that he promotes this management structure through 
his company and speaking engagements does not establish that his efforts have already significantly 
impacted the field to the extent that he has achieved national or international acclaim as a result of his 
business-related contributions. The supporting evidence does not corroborate, for example, how the 
Petitioner's business model has "resonated throughout the Russian Federation ." 
With respect tol Isl I product.I I credits the Petitioner with formulating 
designing it and delivering it to market, and notes that the product "has been very well received and 
adopted by some of the most innovative company's [sic] in our country."I I notes the 
"incredible success" of the product, and several of the other recommendation letters repeat similar 
language about the success of the product and its adoption by Russian companies. The record does not 
include independent evidence of the product's performance, its implementation by prominent 
companies, its recognition in the field, or the individual recognition that the Petitioner has received as 
a result of the product's success in Russia or elsewhere . 
Finally, we have considered an expert opinion letter froml , la professor a~._ _____ _. 
University, who states that he has reviewed the evidence submitted in support of this petition, 
including letters from six professional peers, 7 press related to the Petitioner and his business ventures, 
articles that he has authored, his judging activities, his leadership role with and his 
business-related contributions, and his recognition as "one of the 30 most famous citizen ___ _ 
Without referencing the statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to this classification, be 
concludes that the Petitioner "bas achieved a national and international reputation for outstanding 
achievements in business." This conclusion appears to be based on the Petitioner's submission of 
evidence that satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, but does not included an analysis 
of how that evidence, when considered individually and collectively, supports a conclusion that the 
Petitioner is among that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 
l&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. Furthermore, merely repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
As acknowledged by the Director, the record supports a determination that the Petitioner and I lhave garnered some recognition in the field over the last several years, as evidenced by 
the media coverage discussed above, his invitations to serve as a judge in business competitions and 
to participate in speaking engagements, and the publication of his book and business articles. 
However, the record does not support his claims that bis work has made an impact in the overall field 
of business in Russia, or that he bas achieved sustained national or international acclaim based on bis 
achievements. While the evidence, all of which dates from the last few years, shows that the Petitioner 
is increasingly being recognized for his work in the Russian business community, particularly in the 
7 These include the letters o~~----1 ~I ___ __.l1l'---___ .....1l and three other letters which we have considered 
but did not specifically discuss above. 
8 
~---------_.the totality of the evidence does not establish that he is already among that 
small percentage at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12823340 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least three. 
The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that he would continue work in his area 
of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal based on a determination that 
he did establish that he meets at least three initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, the Petitioner has not met this burden and we 
will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has presented new facts to warrant reopening his appeal 
and/or established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was based on an incorrect application of law 
or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
In dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we acknowledged his claim that he had submitted evidence 
relating to eight of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We evaluated the evidence 
submitted in support of six of these criteria, including: lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards; membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; published materials in 
major media; judging the work of others; original business contributions of major significance; and 
display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v) and (vii). Based 
on our de novo review, we reached the same conclusion as the Director and determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he meets any of the six criteria discussed. 
Although the Petitioner also claimed to meet the criteria related to leading and critical roles and high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix), we reserved 
those criteria and did address them in our decision. The regulations require the Petitioner to establish 
that he meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) in order to meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. Even if we had determined that the Petitioner met the 
2 
remaining claimed criteria, our decision to dismiss the appeal would have been unchanged, as he could 
not satisfy the initial evidence requirements by meeting only two criteria. For the same reason, we did 
not reach the issue of whether the Petitioner established that he would continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability in the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 
U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we misapplied law and USCIS policy to the facts presented, 
failed to give sufficient weight to reference letters and other relevant evidence submitted in support of 
the petition, and imposed novel substantive evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth in the 
regulations in evaluating the Petitioner's claims made under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
address his specific claims below.1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
On appeal, the Petitioner argued that he met this criterion based upon: (1) an award received by 
'-----~~-------~---.....,. a logistics company owned by the Petitioner), and (2) 
a claimed award received by the .__ ____ ---r-----,.-----' during his tenure as its managing 
director. With respect to the award granted to the Petitioner rovided evidence that his 
company received a recognition award la ue fro for "the success 
and import',!,,W~~.u.u......l.L.L....J.U~L...~-~-~----------'" The evidence also included a 2019 
letter from .__ ____ ---r~~---,t--1 confirming that the Petitioner acted in a "key role" as "Contract 
and Project Manager" for.__ _ ____. on the project. I I notes that the Petitioner's contribution 
of "delivery of the equipment on time, on budget and without incidents ... has been endorsed by a 
recognition award." 
In determinrg thal the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion based onl i's 
award from we noted that, according to the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the petitioner is the actual recipient of the awards or 
prizes. 2 We determined that the Petitioner was not the recipient of the award, and thstl ~ s 
letter, written four years after the award was issued, did not indicate the awarding entity's intent to 
recognize the Petitioner individually for his work. We also determined that the Petitioner did not 
1 On motion, the Petitioner does not contest our determination that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which relates to participating as a judge of the work ofothers in the same filed and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), which relates to the display of an individual's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Therefore, we 
deem these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); see also See Sepulveda 
v. US. Att ): Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (I Ith Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at 
*I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that for this criterion, the focus should be on an 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes)." 
3 
provide sufficient evidence to establish that the recognition plaquel I received from CJ for 
its successful performance on the referenced project is a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner's arguments are limited to our determination that he did not establish that 
he was the recipient of the recognition award given tol lbyc=] In this regard, the Petitioner 
asserts that we mischaracterized the content of I Is letter, inappropriately faulted the 
Petitioner for not providing a letter from~issued at the time of the award, and failed to consider 
industry and cultural norms. 3 The Petitioner maintains tha~ Is letter indicatesc=J s intent 
to recognize him for his individual work, and that the regulations do not require that an individual's 
name appear on a physical award or a contemporaneous letter declaring the awarding entity's intent. 
However, even ifwe determined based on these arguments that the Petitioner should be recognized as 
the recipient of the award froml I the motion does not address how we misapplied the law or 
USCIS policy in determining that the evidence did not establish that the recognition plaque fromc=J 
is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In reaching this determination, we acknowledged evidence 
demonstrating thatl ~as the secontlarge
1stl !company according to a list 
published by Forbes in 2017. However, the fact that is an internationally recognized company 
does not lead to a conclusion that a project-specific recognition plaque from one of its subsidiaries is 
a nationally or internationally award or prize for excellence in the industry. Again, the Petitioner has 
not addressed this separate determination on motion and therefore has not shown that the award from I meets all elements of this criterion. 
We made similar determinations with respect to the claimed c==J, award received byc=J in 
2008. The Petitioner submitted evidence that, during his tenu~ managing director, the0 
received a "good" rating based on "[a] survey with 200 executives from user companies com2leted in 
January b~ the Center for Studies in Logistics (CEL), linked to the postgraduate nucleus of thel I I I" We acknowledged a letter froml I management 
indicating that the Petitioner was instrumental to thee=) s receipt of this recognition, but observed 
that the Petitioner was not the recipient of the recognition. We also determined that the evidence did 
not establish that this recognition is a "nationally or internationally recognized prize or award." We 
noted that although the CEL survey ratedc=] on a national basis, the evidence did not establish that 
a favorable rating from this survey is recognized as a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence. On motion, the Petitioner states that "[i]t can be understood that the I ~ for 
an entire region in Brazil and being voted I I across all theD in Brazil is worthy of national 
importance." 
As noted, the fact that the results from the CEL survey were based on data collected for 18 c=J 
throughout Brazil does not establish that the "good" rating received byl I was a nationally 
recognized "prize or award" for excellence. There is no evidence that any prize or award was given 
to those ports that received a "good" rating or a certain ranking. Nor does the evidence establish that 
3 The Petitioner asserts that it is "widely accepted within thel I industry both in the U.S. and abroad to issue an 
award in name of the corporation but in recognition of one specific individual's work, primarily, the individual whom 
owns the corporation at the time the award is issued .... " 
4 
the survey resulted inc=J being named 1 I: the article in which the results of the survey were 
published indicated that it ranked fourth out of 18 Brazilian! I with the top three receiving 
"excellent" ratings. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner has not established that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that he did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserted eligibility for this criterion based on his membership on thel I 
L...----r-----,1------r--~a_n_d_b_a_s_e_d_o_n_h_is_ro_l_e--,wit~ I described as the leasing crmpanyl 
for in the Brazil. We acknowledged a letter from 
director of the ~--r--------:,-', who stated that I I "require[ s] '------------' excellence of our members," noted that the Petitioner is an entrepreneur of "outstanding 
achievements" in theO market, and summarized some of the Petitioner's accomplishments. The 
Petitioner argued on appeal that this letter "demonstrates that not just any professional within the 
industry may satisfy the standards for the Council's membership." 
With respect td I he submitted a letter from its presidentL-.r------~u..u.L.J.J..!..i..u..i...u~ 
Petitioner "became director ofl I on his own merit referred b1,__ ________ p===L.!;!.:::..::; 
to his performance" She notes tha _________ =-____,,....referred [the Petitioner] to._____,. _ ___., 
"with knowledge that we indeed require outstanding achievement of our team" and indicates that 
~~ accepted him "on the basis that his contributions are of excellence." 
We determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because the statements of~I ____ __. 
I I and I I did not provide detailed information to establish either organization's 
membership requirements, nor were they accompanied by any corroborating documentation, such as 
the bylaws ofl lorl I Further, we emphasized that the submitted letters did not address 
all elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) as they do not indicate whether membership 
in either organization requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their fields. 
On motion, the Petitioner objects to our suggestion that corroborating evidence such as the bylaws of 
I I oJ I should have been provided in addition to the referenced letters, noting that such 
evidence is not mentioned in the regulation and cannot be imposed as an additional requirement. It is 
the Petitioner's burden to establish that he meets each element of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Our decision reflects that we did not impose a requirement that the Petitioner submit 
bylaws for these organizations. Rather, we noted the need for corroborating evidence of the 
membership requirements because the letters from representatives of these organizations lacked 
detailed information regarding these requirements and the manner in which membership is granted. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was afforded the opportunity to submit bylaws or any other type 
ofrelevant evidence in response to a request for evidence prior to the petition's denial. The Board of 
Immigration Appeals (the Board) has stated: "We not only encourage but require the introduction of 
5 
corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id.; see also, Matter of Y-B-, 
21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998) (noting that there is a greater need for corroborative evidence when the 
testimony lacks specificity, detail, or credibility). 
Further, as noted, the letters from~------~ and! I did not address the separate 
requirement that the Petitioner establish that recognized national or international experts are charged 
with judging whether a prospective member satisfies the organization's membership requirements. 
Accordingly, even if we found the letters alone sufficient to establish that one or both of these 
organizations requires outstanding achievements as a necessary condition of membership, we could 
not conclude that the criterion had been met. For these reasons, the Petitioner not established that we 
misapplied the law or USCIS policy in concluding that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In evaluating this criterion, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of more than 20 
articles published in six Brazilian newspapers. We identified several reasons for reaching a conclusion 
that the evidence did not satisfy all requirements of this criterion. We noted that five of the articles do 
not mention the Petitioner by name, while the remaining articles identify him but are about thel I I Is business activities and not about him. Further, we determined that 13 of the articles that 
did mention the Petitioner did not include the author or date of the material as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). Finally, we determined that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that 
any of the articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In 
this regard, we noted that he provided supporting documentation regarding only one of the six 
newspapers (Gazeta Mercantil) but did not include circulation figures for the publication to establish 
its major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 4 
On motion, the Petitioner refers to an unpublished decision in which we determined that the self­
petitioner (also an entrepreneur seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability) met 
this criterion based on "a certified translation of an article published in the Hungarian edition of 
[redacted] reflecting published material about him in a major medium." The Petitioner emphasizes 
that in the referenced decision, "the AAO did not consider or require any additional supporting 
evidence, other than the article itself, to determine that the entrepreneur met his burden on this issue." 
He contends that his evidence is sufficient under this same analysis, "as evidence was submitted 
detailing 25 major media publications discussing [the Petitioner] and corroborative evidence was 
submitted detailing how they qualified as major media." In response to our determination that none 
of the submitted articles were about the Petitioner, he refers to another unpublished decision, stating 
that we determined in that matter that "published material may still fulfill this criterion even if it does 
not discuss the content of a person's work, but rather some resulting award or grant received because 
of the work." 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
6 
These two decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Further, the facts here can be 
distinguished. As discussed above, the Petitioner did not, as he now claims, provide corroborative 
evidence to establish that the newspaper articles he submitted under this criterion were published in either 
major media or in other qualifying publications ( either professional or major trade publications). Although 
he implies that we overlooked or disregarded such evidence, he provides no specific reference to 
documentation that we failed to consider in our evaluation of this criterion. The articles submitted here 
were from various Brazilian newspapers and none of them could be readily characterized as qualifying 
publications without evidence regarding their relative circulation statistics and information regarding the 
intended audience. Therefore, even if we determined that one or more of the articles that briefly mentions 
the Petitioner could be considered published material "about" him, it remains that the evidence does not 
establish that any of the articles were published in professional, major trade publications or other major 
media. 
In addition, the Petitioner's motion does not address other deficiencies discussed in our decision, such as 
the fact that 18 of the submitted articles either contained no reference at all to the Petitioner or lacked 
other information required by the plain language of the regulation, specifically the date and author of the 
published material. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy 
in concluding that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claimed that recommendation letters submitted from his colleagues reflect his business­
related contributions in his field. Specifically, he claimed that the evidence was sufficient to establish 
that his contributions included bringing major~--------~companies (and revenue from 
thel I sector) to Brazil and creating employment opportunities for "thousands of Brazilian 
Citizens." 
We evaluated all referenced letters and discussed several of them in our decision, acknowledging that 
the letters praised the Petitioner's entrepreneurial work with his companies, mentioned that he 
contributed to a project at! 0 lthat generated 800 jobs at the port, and recognized 
him as "a pioneer in business and maritime trade in Brazil." However, we determined that the letters 
did not establish how his activities were original contributions that remarkably impacted or were 
remarkably influential in his field as a whole, or how his work is viewed by the field, beyond the scope 
of his own companies and business contacts. 
We also emphasized in our decision that demonstrating ability as a skilled entrepreneur is not, in an 
of itself a contribution of major significance. We determined that the evidence did not demonstrate 
the widespread implementation of his work or otherwise establish that he has made an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
7 
The Petitioner's brief in support of the motion to reconsider does not clearly address our specific 
reasons for determining that he did not meet this criterion or point to any particular evidence submitted 
in support of the criterion that we overlooked. The Petitioner does, however, generally discuss the 
letters submitted in support of the petition, noting that they are "nuanced, coherent, sufficiently crafted 
and provide legitimate insight into [his] extraordinary abilities making it more likely than not that he 
is small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." He 
maintains that "it can be readily ascertained from the insight provided in the letters submitted that [his] 
contributions and abilities rise to the level not readily ascertainable by others within his industry." 
Finally, he argues that "any farther explanation of his contributions would result in an overly 
burdensome level of writing and specificity that is not required by law, thereby making it an entirely 
novel evidentiary standard." 
For purposes of establishing that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the 
evidence must establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. The 
Petitioner argues that the letters establish his extraordinary ability, but an evaluation of whether he has 
established his extraordinary ability is a separate determination that is only addressed if a petitioner 
satisfies the initial evidence requirements by meeting three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner's assertion that it would be overly burdensome to provide any additional information 
regarding his contributions does not sufficiently explain how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy 
in evaluating this criterion. In fact, we specifically cited to USCIS policy which provides that letters 
have more probative value when they "specifically articulate how the [petitioner's] contributions are 
of major significance to the field" and discuss their "impact on subsequent work."5 We did not 
disregard the letters submitted in support of the petition; we determined that they lacked the type of 
information needed to reach a favorable determination with respect to this specific criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that we made an incorrect determination with respect 
to this criterion. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we conclude Petitioner has either not addressed or not submitted 
legal arguments to overcome our conclusions with respect to any of the six criteria that we addressed 
in our appellate decision. As noted, we did not reach the merits of the Petitioner's arguments on appeal 
with respect to the two remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) because 
doing so could not change the outcome of the decision. Even if we determined that he submitted 
evidence to establish that he meets those two criteria, he could not succeed on a claim that he satisfied 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification, which requires him to show that he meets three 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner addresses the merits of the evidence submitted in support of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) at some length in his brief in support of this combined 
motion. With respect to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), he maintains that our 
decision not to discuss this criterion in our decision supports his argument that "due process was not 
given" to him in this matter. However, he does establish how we misapplied the law or policy by 
declining to address two criteria that were not relevant to the outcome of our decision. As we 
explained above, federal agencies, like courts are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 8-9. 
8 
unnecessary to the results they reach. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976). The 
Petitioner has not established how we erred by reserving these issues. Nor has the Petitioner 
demonstrated any resultant prejudice such as would constitute a due process violation. See, e.g., Vides­
Vides v. INS, 783 F.2d 1463, 1469-70 (9th Cir. 1986); Nicholas v. INS, 590 F.2d 802, 809-10 (9th Cir. 
1979); Martin-Mendoza v. INS, 499 F.2d 918,922 (9th Cir. 1974), cert. denied, 419 U.S. 1113 (1975). 
Had the Petitioner overcome our previous determination with respect to one or more of the other six 
claimed criteria with this motion, we would address the merits of the Petitioner's claims regarding the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). However, as he has not done so, we will not address 
those issues here. 
For the reasons discussed above, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
In support of his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits three new exhibits: (1) a newly preoared 
expert opinion letter froml I an associate dean at the University! 0.... I 
(2) a "proper translation" of the above-referenced award issued byl I tol I and (3) a 
personnel chart detailing the Petitioner's position atl I and intended to support his claim that 
he satisfies the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In his brief, the Petitioner states that the supplemental expert opinion from I _____ _ 
"corroborates the claims alleged by those pieces of testimonial comparable evidence submitted in 
support of [his] petition and support[s] those facts which are the basis of these motions and specifically 
indicate why [he] is an alien of extraordinary ability." I Is opinion letter provides a 
detailed discussion of the Petitioner's business experience, qualifications and achievements. He 
concludes that the Petitioner "has extraordinary ability in the entrepreneurship field and has satisfied 
at least five of the criteria of the USCIS for classification as an Alien of Extraordinary Ability." 
We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion statements from universities, professional 
organizations , or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 
l&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, where an opinion is not in accord with other 
information or is in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to 
that evidence. Id. Here, although thel I states that the Petitioner meets five of the 
evidentiary criteria for this classification, he does not cite to the regulatory criteria or explain how the 
Petitioner meets each element of these criteria. For example, he opines that the Petitioner has received 
"several internatiolally rrognized awards" but does not specify which evidence supports his 
conclusion that the rating thatc=J received from the CEL survey or the recognition plaque I I received fro:t=J I qualify as "internationally recognized" awards. As already 
discussed, the fact that is an internationally recognized company does not lead to a conclusion 
that any project-related recognition a I I company gives to a business collaborator is an 
internationally recognized award within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). His conclusion that 
the Petitioner satisfies the membership criterion is similarly lacking in detail as to how the Petitioner's 
memberships satisfied all elements of the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and does 
not overcome the conclusions we reached when we applied that regulation to the facts presented. 
9 
Further, we are ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign 
national's eligibility. The submission ofletters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive 
evidence of eligibility. Id. I Is letter does not provide new facts that would overcome our 
determination with respect to the four criteria discussed above. 
The remaining new evidence submitted on motion includes a newly prepared translation of the award 
given tol lbyl I While this evidence addresses a deficiency noted in our discussion of the 
awards criterion in our appellate decision, our determination did not rest on the insufficiency of the 
previously submitted translation. Finally, the new evidence pertaining to the Petitioner's role in 
I Is organizational hierarchy does not address any of the six criteria which we discussed in our 
appellate decision and therefore does not overcome our reasons for dismissal of the appeal. 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner requests that the motion to reopen "be accepted on the 
basis of ineffective assistance of counsel." Specifically, counsel states in his brief that prior counsel 
has been "unable and unwilling" to provide the Petitioner with the brief and/or documentation he 
submitted in support of the appeal and speculates that prior counsel may have neglected to file a brief. 
There is no further reference to the ineffective assistance claim in the brief on motion. 
Although the Petitioner's new counsel speculates that prior counsel may have failed to submit a brief 
in support of the appeal, the record reflects that prior counsel did in fact provide a timely brief that we 
considered in rendering our appellate decision. The Petitioner does not otherwise explain why the 
matter should be reopened based on ineffective assistance of prior counsel. 
For the reasons discussed, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration and has not overcome the 
grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed 
for these reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12796266 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a manufacturer ofrail transportation systems, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a project 
commercial manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as a project commercial manager with responsibility 
for commercial and contractual aspects of it integration projects for the I landl I railroads inl I The Beneficiary has a bachelor's degree in civil 
engineering and a master's degree in infrastructure -transportation from University I I as 
well as a master's degree in management from University I I Prior to joining the Petitioner in 
2018, the Beneficiary was employed byl I from 2011 to 2017 and with I I from 2001 until 2011. His curriculum vitae reflects that he has 
international experience with public private partnership (P3) and infrastructure projects, particularly 
in the transportation sector, and has provided advisory and consultancy services to his employers' 
clients in several other industries. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary 
could meet four of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets any of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets the criteria 
related to judging, original contributions, and critical roles, and contends that the Director either 
2 
disregarded probative evidence or misapplied the law as it relates to these criteria. The Petitioner has 
not contested the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary did not satisfy the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 
4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary did not meet this criterion, explaining that "in an 
occupation where judging the work of others is an inherent duty of the occupation, simply performing 
one's job-related duties demonstrates competency, but is not evidence that one's 'achievements have 
been recognized in the field of expertise."' For this reason, the Director concluded that the evidence 
related to the Beneficiary's work-related judging activities "has no probative value for this criterion." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director misapplied the law when evaluating this criterion. 
We agree, as the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) does not require a showing that the 
Beneficiary's judging activities demonstrate recognition for his achievements in the field. Such an 
analysis would be appropriate in a final merits determination to determine whether or to what extent 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion establishes the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
We also emphasize that the fact that a management consultant may be required to judge the work of 
others as an inherent job function does not prohibit persons in this occupation from meeting this 
criterion. USCIS guidance on evaluating this criterion indicates that routine activities performed by 
professors as part of their occupation ( such as peer review of manuscripts for scholarly journals and 
serving on Ph.D. dissertation committees) may be qualifying.1 However, regardless of the field, the 
judging activities must be clearly described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence 
should demonstrate with specificity whose work and what type of work the individual judged. 
Upon de nova review, we find insufficient evidence to establish that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. The Petitioner relies on testimonial evidence, including a letter from! I 
'------,-------,,------------ who states: 
[The Beneficiary] ... conducted an ambitious review of the I I Finance and 
Transport ministries' processes and policies for developing, procuring and delivering 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
road, rail and port transport projects inl I This work involved comparing the ~--~I government's construction projects, policies and procedures against that of 
many other countries . . .. This complex study required [the Beneficiary] to use his 
detailed understanding of many of the world's most complex transport and infrastructure 
organizations to determine what policies contribute positively to a successful project 
development and delivery process. As such [he] summarized key lessons and practices 
that could be implemented to resolve the challenges the I I government was 
encountering in its own market. 
The record does not contain additional evidence regarding the study referenced in this letter, and 
notably, the letter does not identify with specificity what work or whose work the Beneficiary judged. 
We cannot determine that "benchmarking," "review," or summarizing the results of a comparative 
study equate to 'judging," particularly where the record does not identify whose work was reviewed 
or provide sufficient detail to adequately document the nature of the Beneficiary's activities. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the I I Transport Ministry deferred to the Beneficiary s 
guidance "on how it developed, procured and delivered every new road, railway or port inl _ ," 
noting that "[every] government-led transportation project inl I in its totality is a much larger 
body of work to judge than most infrastructure projects that require consultants, so any consultant 
capable of judging it must be definition exceed the norm in the field by as wide of a margin." However, I l's letter does not adequately support the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary has 
effectively judged "every government-led transportation project inl I" 
For similar reasons, we find a letter from of insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. ~---------'.....:>..L.<.1.1.lo..~....,at he supervised the 
Beneficiary on several projects when they both worked at ~----~--~ The Petitioner relies 
on the following passage from his letter in support of its claim that the Beneficiary has performed 
qualifying activities as a judge: 
[The Beneficia and I also had the o ortunity to conduct a risk assessment of the 
proposed ro · ect. ThiJ I was proposed 
by the ........,_..------------.------ and failed to progress through the 
design and feasibility stages to the bid phase. [The Beneficiary] supported me and a 
small team of consultants in a review of the project's technical and commercial 
challenges. Using criteria that had been developed from other project work he helped 
develop explanations as to why this~project ... was unlikely to progress. As part 
of his professional development this particular project helped show the importance of 
careful preparatory work at the earliest stages of development. 
~--~-~Is assertion that the Beneficiary supported his supervisor and a team of consultants "in 
a review of ... technical and commercial challenges" related to this project is insufficient to establish 
eligibility for this criterion. In a supporting letter, the Petitioner asserts thatl ts letter 
demonstrates that the Beneficiary has been responsible for "judging non-colleagues' infrastructure 
management work, like his evaluations ofthel ~-" However, the 
nature and source of any "infrastructure management work" reviewed by the Beneficiary remains 
largely unidentified in the record, and we note that I ts letter does not make any reference 
4 
tol The Beneficiary's curriculum vitae lists the~------------~ among 
the high-speed rail projects he worked on, but it provides no additional information about his activities 
related to this project, nor does it mentio~ I 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this criterion. Although we have considered the testimonial evidence, the record lacks 
specificity and corroborating evidence of the Beneficiary's role in the projects mentioned above and 
is insufficient to establish that his activities involved judging the work of others as contemplated by 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the individuals original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends that the recommendation letters submitted from the Beneficiary's colleagues 
reflect his business-related contributions in the field. 2 In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must 
establish that not only has the beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director concluded that the letters froml l I I and others illustrate 
that the Beneficiary "is a capable project commercial manager" but do not establish that his 
contributions to various projects are "both original and of major significance in the overall field." On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored reliable, relevant and probative evidence and 
incorrectly relied on Matter o_f Caron Int'! Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) "to justify 
ignoring all letters." The Petitioner farther emphasizes that expert letters that specifically articulate 
how the Beneficiary's contributions are of major significance in the field and their impact on 
subsequent work "may form the basis for meeting this criterion." 
Specifically, the Petitioner relies on the letters of I II I and._l ___ _, 
.__ _____ _,I, CEO o ~--------~to establish that the Beneficiary meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In his letterJ lstates that the Beneficiary "was a key contributor on numerous rail 
infrastructure projects" during his tenure with0 including "noteworthy advisory projects withc=J 
in thel l" He briefly describes one project in which the Beneficiary "conducted 
workshops with public organizations, interacted with rail contractors and corporates, and ran focus 
groups for a supply chain market study for g" I I also states that he "worked on 
anothe0 project that looked to comparethL 1 ~ organization to and benchmark its 
processes for infrastructure procurement and spending programs against other railroad organizations." 
He notes that the Beneficiary interacted closely with French, Spanish and Italian national railways to 
determine how these countries modernized their national rail infrastructures and to determine "what 
lessons can be learnt to improve the c:J organization's own internal processes." WhileD 
2 Although we discuss the three letters that the Petitioner emphasized in response to the Director's request for evidence 
and on appeal, we have considered all testimonial evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
5 
~----~!confirms the Beneficiary's contributions as a consultant assigned bQ to th~~-~ 
project, he does not explain his role in detail, explain how his contributions were novel or original, or 
describe the remarkable influence or impact that his contributions to this project have had in the field 
of P3 infrastructure management. In fact, he does not describe with specificity how the Beneficiary's 
efforts advanced this particular project. 
On appeal, the Petitioner explains that~is the first entirely domestic high-speed rail line inl._ __ _. 
history with an estimated cost that makes it one of the country's largest P3 infrastructure projects.3 
The Petitioner maintains that "because of its sheer size and novelty and the incredibly specialized 
nature of [ the Beneficiary's] field, any work that considerably advances its construction is a significant 
contribution to the entire area of P3 infrastructure consulting." More specifically, the Petitioner states 
that "[h ]is creation of its first benchmarks for procurement rd spelding therefore improve any P3 
infrastructure manarr anf affect any such project throughout while given how many workers 
are involved with s construction, there are unquestionably many people applying his 
contribution." While the Petitioner maintains thatl l"confirmed all of this" in his 0 
testimony, we disagree with that assertion. His letter, as noted, does not in fact address how the duties 
the Beneficiary performed fore=] on this project have advanced the construction of theO or how 
he has contributed "to the entire area of P3 infrastructure consulting," nor does it support a conclusion 
that there are "many people" applying the Benefici~ contributions in this field. He did not, for 
example, explain how the Beneficiary's work on the[__J project was particularly impactfol on other 
rail projects in this sector. 
We do not question that the Beneficiary was a valuable member ofOs team assigned to theO 
project or that the project itself is a significant, high profile 1rojec\ However, the Petitioner has not 
established that the Beneficiary's involvement on behalf of even if it will ultimately help to 
"advance the construction" of theLJ railway, equates to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner similarly claims that the Beneficiary's "original contributions to thel I had 
major significance to his entire field because it was an all-important P3 rail rrojey." The Petitioner 
ex lains that th is the first and only connection between the andl I 
.-!====..-------~~------') and "a vital part of thel ] 
.....,_ __ ➔, a program "intended to create a continent-wide P3 rail network." 
The Petitioner maintains that a letter frortj !"explains why [ the Beneficiary's] work 
on this ro·ect constituted a series of original contributions of major significance."4 Mr. 
'-----.-----'-w_h_o__,states that he was formerly the chief operating officer for this project, confirms 
that the.__ ____ ___.is "a critical part of this entire European transport corridor" and notes that the 
Beneficiary "was a significant advisor and contributor" throughout its construction. Specifically, he 
3 The Petitioner submitted background information from the website ot1 I (wwwOrg.uk) regarding~ 
high speed rail project, which indicates that it involves 345 miles of new high-speed track that will connectl___J 
Birmingham, Manchester and Leeds. with construction on Phase One (London-Birmingham) expected to start by 2026 and 
network completion b,.__2~03~3~. --~ 
4 A who previously worked with the Beneficia~ in her ro)e as a managing consu)tant 
with mentions this same project in passing. She notes that the!_ I 
project was one of many infrastructure projects he supp01ted while with his previous employer. 
6 
notes that the Beneficiary's duties as "a consultant and engineer" included: reviewing the construction 
progress over the schedule, assessing the project's commercial requirements, ensuring payment of 
project funds, holding meetings with public and private stakeholders, developing solutions with senior 
construction and rail engineers, and facilitating the project's completion! hsserts 
that the Beneficiary's contributions "reduced project risks by identifying specific technical and 
commercial issues" and he credits him with "contributing methods for the contractor to resolve these 
[issues] to ensure that the project could be delivered on time and on budget." He also notes that the 
Petitioner returned to this project following its completion to review and develop restructuring 
solutions for consideration by stakeholders. 
, 0 I praises the Beneficiary's "exceptional command of the wide-ranging and diverse 
transferable skills required for engineering, commercial and infrastructure rail and transport project 
delivery" and confirms that he has contributed to "many distinguished global organizations" working 
on "complex rail and transport projects." 
As with th~rail project, the Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that thd d 
was part of a significant high-speed rail undertaking. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains tha I , 'CO I "made clear that [the Beneficiary's] original contributions had major significance to 
the entire field of P3 management by describing how the tunnel is a critical centerpiece of the entire I I network, a continent-wide network of P3 rail lines responsible for modernizing infrastructure 
acrossl [" The Petitioner states that "any work that noticeably improved" this network "must 
have advanced P3 infrastructure management by extension" and maintains that~------~ 
testimony "described in detail how [the Beneficiary's] original contributions did that." 
However, as notedJ I testimony does not elaborate on how the Beneficiary's 
responsibilities related to thd lamounted to original contributions of major significance 
that went on to influence or impact the field of P3 infrastructure management consulting. The 
Petitioner requests that we make assumptions based on the importance of the overall project, a major 
undertaking in which the contributions of many professionals from many organizations were 
undoubtedly necessary to ensure its successful completion. ~--~---~ brief summary of 
the Beneficiary's project-related contributions, without more, is not sufficient to establish that he has 
made contributions that were widely implemented by others in the field or otherwise impacted 
subsequent the P3 infrastructure management projects in a way that is considered to be of major 
significance in this field. 
The third and final contribution referenced! by the retitioner on appeal relates to the Beneficiary's 
work on twc~ I construction projects in (known as the ~----__.routes) during his 
tenure with I I The Petitioner maintains that the Director "arbitrarily dismissed" the 
following testimony o~ I: 
As a key member of my teams [the Beneficiary] conducted due diligence advisory 
projects on about 500 km of majoc:::Jconstruction inl I such as [the~and I lroutes]. He had a significant role in the technical, commercial and financial 
analysis of these two major construction projects, both of which are today in full 
operational 320 km/hour service. By way of explanation, the projects were funded 
7 
under a P3 model and are part of some of the longestD routes delivered into 
operation inl I in the last decade. 
The Petitioner maintains that "by leading the creation of two of the longest new high-speed rail lines 
inl Ir the Beneficiary] undoubtedly made a contribution with major significance to the field," 
and notes that "this is particularly the case given that thee::] was just the second P3 high-speed line 
inl !history." The Petitioner asserts that the completion of these two lines was "a historic 
achievement that could not have happened without [the Beneficiary's] ... leadership" and "his 
prominent role in that accomplishment undoubtedly has major significance for the field of P3 
infrastructure management." 
I r '5 testimony does not support the Petitioner's suggestion that the Beneficiary was 
charged with "leading the creation" of thec=J andD high-speed rail lines and does not attribute 
this level of responsibility to him. He does not suggest that the Beneficiary spearheaded the entire rail 
delivery project or even led I ts advisory contribution. In fact[ I 
indicates in his letter that he personally mentored the Beneficiary during his tenure with! ____ ~ 0 so that he could "develop the skills necessary to become a consultant in the role of Lenders' 
Technical Advisor." As noted, he indicates that, as a member of a team, the Beneficiary performed 
due diligence activities and contributed technical, commercial and financial analyses, but he does not 
discuss the impact of these activities on the overall project, much less in the field, nor is it clear how 
the Beneficiary's contribution t(LJandc=] lines was novel or original. 
Upon review, although the authors of the aforementioned letters demonstrate that the Beneficiary's 
work is highly regarded by his colleagues, the letters do not establish how his work is viewed by the 
field as majorly significant. USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from 
universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. 
Caron, 19 l&N Dec. at 794. However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner correctly emphasizes, when assessing this criterion, USCIS officers are 
required to take into account the probative analysis that experts in the field may provide in opinion 
letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Here, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information 
identifying the Beneficiary's original contributions and explaining the unusual influence his consulting 
and advisory work has had on his specialized field. Further, the Petitioner's claims regarding the 
impact of the Beneficiary's contributions are not adequately supported by the testimonial evidence. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
5 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
6Id.at9. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In denying the petition, the Director addressed the Petitioner's submission of three letters from its own 
representatives and from a representative ofc=J but concluded that the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. The Director determined that the letters "do not provide 
detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the beneficiary's role was leading 
or critical for an entire organization or establishment." 
Upon review, we disagree with the Director's determination and conclude that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion based on his current role as a project commercial manager with the petitioning company. 7 
As noted, the Petitioner submitted three letters from high level employees familiar with the 
Beneficiary's work, as well as a very detailed position description for his position which identifies its 
relatively senior placement within the company's hierarchy. This evidence indicates that the 
Beneficiary was specifically recruited by the Petitioner not only to lead commercial and contractual 
aspects of one of its largest and most critical P3 rail projects, but also to help shape the company's 
regional strategy and practice in his area of expertise to ensure the company's continued growth in the 
rail and transport infrastructure sector. The evidence is sufficient to establish both the Beneficiary's 
critical role with the Petitioner's U.S. organization and the company's distinguished reputation. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meet at least three of the ten alternate criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
7 The Petitioner also claimed that the Beneficiary served in a "critical or essential capacity" based on work he performed 
for the government of the~---.....,....-~ and forl I Although the Director did not 
address these claims in his decision. we note that this error is harmless considering our reversal of the Director's 
determination that the Beneficiary did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
9 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Although the Beneficiary has worked for employers that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation in the transportation and infrastructure consulting field and provided advisory 
and consulting services on some high profile projects, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1 7 513 9 81 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 01, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a film and television director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences , arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a film and television director who has directed e isodes of rimetime television series 
In addition, she has 
written and directedL----------r------,..Jfilms. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
a bachelor of arts from The University and is a graduate of the.__ _______ _.'s I I and I I Program. She currently works in the United States in 0-1 
nonimmigrant status and provided evidence of her upcoming commitments to direct episodes ofD 
I 11 II I andl l among other series. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x). The Petitioner claims to meet eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria, relating to judging the work 
of others in her field. We agree. The record reflects that the Petitioner has served on judging panels 
for film festivals and film awards competitions and therefore supports the Director's determination 
that she satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other seven claimed criteria, which we will 
discuss below. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied only one of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204 .5 (h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.1 
The Petitioner has documented her receipt of the following awards for her short and feature films: 
•• c.,.[ ___ .....,I Award, presented b~ !Network (1999); 
I I Film Festival, Best of the Festival Winler /200 5); ~ 
• Film Festival Award Film (2005); 
t------..__ _______ _JFilm Festival, Award Winner(2005); 
Erner in Television Director Award, presented byl I Film and Television ..----.,._..i.;;;;=== • 
• 
• ~-----~Fil~ Festival,l~ ____ _.I Award~ ____________ _. 
(2012); and.--------, • I fl !Award," presented by._l ____ _.1(2016). 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that she was nominated for a.__ _____ -===--__,,Award 
for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in al I for an ~nisode off he0 series I I I lin 2017.2 We observe that a national Director's Guild~-___ _._Award of this nature 
would be sufficient to meet this criterion; however, a nomination for this award does not satisfy the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner's 2008 ~ !Emerging Television Director Award," was co-presented by the 
~ _ ____.I branch of the Director's Guild I I rather than by the national organization. The Petitioner 
did not provide supporting evidence to establish thatthis regionally granted, early career award gamers 
the national recognition oftheDirector'sGuildl bnnual industiy awards for which the Petitioner 
was subsequently nominated, or otheiwise establish the national or international recognition associated 
with this award. The description of the award states that is granted to an '"emerging I 
director" and included a two-month mentorship with an established television director and intensive 
industry coaching. The Petitioner generally asserts that Director's Guild! I awards are 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 The Petitioner's Internet Movie Database (IMDB) profile lists a second Director's Guildl I a ward nomination 
(specifically, fora~TeamAward") foranepisodeo~ I 2014, but she did not submit 
any additional evidence related to this nomination. 
3 
"equivalent" to Director's Guild I awards and otherwise "equal in stature and reputation," but 
has not submitted sufficient evidence to support this claim with respect to herl I award 
received in 2008. 
The Petitioner'~ !Award" was presented to her by th re ional 
chapter of the I I, a national union for.__ __ _. 
performers working in these industries. Although the record documents her receipt of the award, she has 
not addressed this award in her brief on appeal or in any letters in su ort of the petition. The record 
contains a copy of her award plague, a Wikipedia article abou screenshots from thd I 
website, and anl I press release about the 201 .__ ___ _. Awards. This evidence 
indicates that the award, first given in 2016, is intended to honor diversity in the industry and to "celebrate 
one individual and one company each year whose work demonstrate a commitment to inclusion on 
screen." The evidence does not fmiheraddress the criteria for granting the award or the scope of the 
awards, which appears to be limited to the I I chapter. Nor does the record include any 
media coverage of the Petitioner's receipt of the award that would assist in establishing whether it 
garnered publicity commensurate with a nationally recognized entertainment industry award. 
Accordingly, the evidence submitted is insufficient to demonstrate that the I I award is a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in television or motion picture directing. 
With respect to the Petitioner's film festival awards, the record is similarly lacking evidence that the 
awards she received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. Her I I Award" was accompanied by evidence that appears to relate to a different awards program 
called! I Awards. The Petitioner's awav...,.._._........., .......... ........,........_'+' her by the I I 
Network in 1999. The information provided re ardin Awards indicates that this award 
was first presented in 2000 and is overseen b .__ ___________________ ___,· c::J Therefore, this information does not appear to relate to her 1999 award. Similarly, while the 
Petitioner provided a certificate documenting herreceipt of an award at thel IFilm Festivai the 
record lacks any supporting evidence regarding this festival or the national or international recognition 
associated with this award. 
The Petitioner indicates in supporting letters that she received a 2004....._ _______ ___, Award at 
the 2004 Film Festival, which is described in the record as a festival dedicated to providing 
She did not provide '---------------------------------' documentary evidence of her receipt of this award or additional information regarding the festival or 
award. According to the Petitioner's IMDb profile, she received thel IA ward for Best Feature 
Film at thd I Film Festival for her film I I in 2005. The record includes a 
photograph of a trophy that appears to be a 2005 l I Award." However, she did not 
mention this award in her supporting letters, submit any additional evidence related to this award, and has 
not established that it is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field. 
Regarding thel _ IFilm Festival the Petitioner submitted a screenshot 
from the website] I which briefly describes the Award and the rules and terms of 
entry for the 22nd edition of the festival, indicating that it was .__ ____________ ___, I I" According to the information provided, the festival's award 
winner receives "an InkTip script listing to assist the winner in getting their script for their next film to 
producers." The record does not contain any other evidence related to this award and does not support a 
4 
determination that this festival'~._ ___ _.IAward is a nationally or internationally recognized prize for 
excellence. 
Finally, the Petitioner documented her receipt of al I Award in the.__ ______ _. 
I I category a~----------~ Film Festival, in 2012. She 
provided information about the festival and its 2020 entry requirements from the website Film Freeway, 
a Wikipedia aiiicle about the festival, and a 2017 article about the festival's 50th anniversary, published 
online by Houston Press. The information from Film Freeway describes! las '"one of the oldest 
and largest film and video competitions in the world, with morethan4,574categoryentries received from 
7 4 nations in 2020." The recordreflects that the festival has over 200 sub-categories, with approximately 
15-20% of all entries receiving awards across categories. Awards are based on scoring by a jury with a 
score cutoff for each level of award, which include the Grand Remi, special jury award, platinum, gold, 
silver, and bronze awards. The description of the festival indicates that the fe~tiva) is international in 
scope and that several well-known filmmakers received their very first awards a~ I 
While the festival appears to be well-established in the independent film industry, it bestows several 
hundred awards annually. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that every 
level of Remi Award in every category is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
The issue here is not the national or international scope of the competition, but rather whether the 
Petitioner's specific award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field. The record does not contain evidence of the nature or type ofrecognition the Petitioner 
received as a result of this award, such as, for example, media about the 2012 festival in which she 
participated, nor does it contain evidence of the nature and type of independent recognition that Remi 
award winners receive in general, outside of the festival itself. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. Although 
we acknowledge that the Petitioner is the recipient of several awards in her field which recognize the 
quality of her work, the evidence she submitted does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the individual '.s membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility under this criterion. In response to a request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner mentioned in her cover letter that she "is a member of a major industry guild and 
union who selected her for membership due to her high level of achievements and having reached certain 
milestones and benchmarks." The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence in support of her claim that she has one or more qualifying memberships in associations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her assertion that she satisfies this criterion but does not address the 
Director's determination that the record lacks evidence to support that claim. There are references in the 
record to the Petitioner's membership in the Director's Guild I I However, there is no primary 
evidence ofhermembershipin this oranyotherassociationinherfield. Noris there evidence to establish 
that she is a member of an association in her field which requires outstanding achievements ofits members 
5 
as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts, such as documentation of official 
membership requirements and member selection procedures for the Director's Guildl lor other 
associations. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must provide evidence of published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. Here, the Petitioner has consistently claimed that she "has been extensively featured in 
major newspapers, magazines and trade publications inl I' 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted articles from the websites wdtvpress.com, 
Indiewire.com, sheknows.com, blackincanada.com, caribbeantalesfestival.com, playbackonline.ca, 
the audienceawards.com, as well as various online reviews for television shows in which she was 
identified as the director of a particular episode or episodes. The Director determined that the articles 
from these sources did not satisfy this criterion because, while they mentioned the Petitioner, they 
were not about the Petitioner and her work. Because this required element of the criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii) was not met, the Director did not further evaluate this evidence to determine if the 
referenced articles included all required information ( author, date and title) or whether they appeared 
in qualifying professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director determined that some of the submitted articles are about the Petitioner and her work in 
the field, specifically referencing articles from the websites pennantmediagroup.com, 
megadiversities.com, wgsi.utoronto.ca, filmfatales.org, and notablelife.com. However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient supporting documentation to establish that these 
publications are professional or major trade publications or other major media, as claimed. 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes the same claims she made at the time of filing and in response to the 
Director's RFE, without identifying specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact 
for the appeal, or even referencing the Director's decision on this issue. Rather, the brief submitted 
on appeal repeats previous claims that the Petitioner "has been extensively featured in maJor 
newspapers, magazines and trade publications inl I' 
As the Petitioner has not specifically contested the Director's reasons for finding the submitted 
evidence to be deficient, we will not address every article here. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including evidence not expressly mentioned in the 
denial decision, and conclude that the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not establish that any of the submitted aiiicles satisfy all requirements set f mih at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a printout of an article titled·~-----------~ I I' from the website of the National Screen 
Institute (NSI) ~ I. The article contains a group photograph that includes the 
6 
Petitioner and her name is mentioned in the caption, but the article is not about her and she is not 
otherwise mentioned. Even if this could be considered a "professional or major trade publication" in 
the Petitioner's field, it would not satisfy this criterion. The Director mentioned that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence from an ABC television press website (wdtvpress.com/abc). This website 
published behind-the-scenes photographs taken on set during the filming of an episode of1 I 
~-------~ The Petitioner is identified in the captions accompanying the photographs, but 
there is no accompanying article about her, and therefore, this evidence does not satisfy the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Another article, titled.___~-------------r--------------........, 
is about al !television network's decision not to air 
1-------.----'' and the ensuing court battle over the show. The Petitioner was one of several 
television indus fi res contacted b the article's author who solicited her view on 
L---------1---J------.l' The aiiicle refers to her as "a rising star," mentions that she has directed 
r-"-'~~~~'----~=-----~=an=d~i=n=c=lu~d"'-"-ies a quote from her about I I 
However, the lengthy article, published online 
by Medium, is not about the Petitioner. 3 
The Petitioner submitted a second aiiicle from Medium, an interview with the Petitioner about the 
Netflix serid !published byl I While this article is about the Petitioner and 
her work as a director, it does not identify an author or include the full date of publication. Further, 
the aiiicle is not accompanied by sufficient evidence thatMedium, an open online publishingplatf01m, 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. We note that evidence of published material in 
major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to 
other circulation statistics. 4 The Petitioner submitted ranking data from Similar Web indicating that the 
websiteranked2 l 9th in the United States, but did notofferfurthersupportfora claim that this ranking 
qualifies the blogging platform as "other major media." 
The Petitioner provided circulation statistics and rankings for only two other T ublications. She 
provided a 2013 aiiicle published by notablelife.com, which is self-described as _ I I I covering "all aspects of millennial life." 
The article, an interview with the Petitioner about her career as a director, does not identify the author. 
Further, the Similar Web ranking for this publication i~ lis 43,059 and the Petitioner has not 
explained how this qualifies the magazine as a major medium. Therefore, while the aiiicle is about 
the Petitioner and her work, the evidence submitted regarding this publication's circulation and 
intended audience does not establish that it qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. 
The Petitioner also provided a traffic overview and rankings from SimilarWeb for the website 
Indiewire.com. The accompanying article from Indiewire, an online publication covering film and 
television, was written in 2015 regarding about an upcoming! I 
3 The author includes a note in the introduction of his article, indicating that a shorter version of the piece had been 
published byth~ ~ Globe andMail. The record does not include a copy of that version and it is unknown 
if the brief paragraph that mentions the Petitioner was included. 
4 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix. 
7 
television series called~-------~ The Petitioner's name is mentioned at the end of the 
article as one of four individuals "rounding out the directing team," but the article is not about her and 
would not satisfy this criterion even if we determined that the article appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
As noted by the Director, while the record includes other articles that are about the Petitioner and 
related to her work as a director, none of them were accompanied by the required evidence of 
publication in rofessional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner and 
anothe filmmaker are featured in a rint article titled I I 
'-----------------------' 'but the evidence does not clearly identify the 
name and full date of the publication or contain any inf mmation about the publication, such as its 
intended audience and circulation statistics. A profile about the Petitioner and her career was 
published by the website of the Women and Gender Studies Institute of the University I I I ~, the Petitioner's alma mater, but the article is not accompanied by evidence that 
this website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
We have reviewed all the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and conclude that it does not 
support the Petitioner's claim that she "has been extensively featured in major newspapers, magazines 
and trade publications inl I' The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific. scholarly. artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to meet this criterion. In a cover letter accompanying her response 
to the RFE, counsel confusingly referred to "compulsive and overwhelming evidence tha~ I 
[sic]" meets this criterion. Other than mentioning that the Petitioner has made "significant contributions . 
to high-profile productions," the letter did not elaborate on how the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. For 
ex amp le, it did not identify her original contributions and their major significance or point to specific 
evidence she was submitting in support of this criterion. 
At the time of filing and in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted severnl letters from colleagues 
in the film and television industry who praise her technical skills and artistic talents as a director and note 
the high profile nature of some of her netwotk television projects. The Petitioner offered these letters as 
"other qualifying evidence of her extraordinary achievement," rather than submitting them in supp01t of 
the "original contributions" evidentiary criterion. The Director nevertheless evaluated the testimonial 
evidence, noting that the letters from experts in her field did not establish either her specific original 
contributions to the field or the major significance of such contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she satisfies this criterion, repeating her claim that the record 
contains "compulsive and overwhelming evidence" related to this and all other claimed criteria. 
8 
However,her brief does not further elaborate on this claim, makes no additional reference to this criterion, 
and does not acknowledge or address the Director's reasons for finding the submitted evidence to be 
insufficient to meet her burden of proof. Therefore, the Petitioner has effectively abandoned this issue 
and we need not further address it. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); see alsoHristovv. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731, 2011WL4711885, at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) 
(plaintiff's claims found to be abandoned when not raised on appeal to the AAO); see also Greenbriar, 
Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references to 
issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence from individuals who attest to 
her talent, comment on the quality of her work on specific projects, and state that she is in demand as 
an episodic television director. They do not explain the major significance of specific artistic 
contributions that the Petitioner has made or elaborate on how such contributions are "original." 
Having a unique or special skill set as a director is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of­
itself. The record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
talents to impact the field at a significant level, which she has not shown. For example, the Petitioner's 
letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying her original contributions and 
explaining the unusual influence her work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
aiiiculate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 However, the letters submitted here do not demonstrate the Petitioner's 
impact beyond the individual television episodes she directed. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that she has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was ( 1) leading or critical; 
(2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or establishment 
has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
In claiming eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner describes the many responsibilities of a 
television director, noting that the director "is a key, major role in the production of any feature film 
or television production," and that the position is "key, vital and important to every production studio 
and television network." She asserted that she has served in a "critical lead position" with 
distinguished film and television production companies as a result of her work as a director on 
television shows for ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, CW Network, Netflix, Warner Bros. Television,Amblin 
5 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 
Entertainment and others. Her initial evidence in support of this criterion included information about 
NBC, BBC America, and Warner Bros. Television Group. 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted did not establish how serving in a leading or 
critical role for an episode of a television show equates to serving in a leading or critical role for a 
television network, studio, or production company as a whole. Accordingly, he concluded that the 
Petitioner did not meet her burden to demonstrate that she has served in a qualifying role for an 
"organization or establishment" with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her assertion that episodic television directors provide "a critical and 
leading function to the overall production," and serve in a role that is "key, vital and important to every 
production studio and television network." 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments," 
and the Petitioner has not established that any of the television shows she has directed qualify as 
organizations or establishments. Therefore, even if we detemnned that she held a leading or critical mle 
for a distinguished production (i.e., one or more episodes of a successful television series) additional 
evidence would be required to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The testimonial evidence in the record includes several letters from television studio and production 
company executives. These letters, however, do not establish that the Petitioner held a leading or 
critical osition for these organizations. 6 I I Chair and CEO ofl I media company 
,.__ __________ L...::..co=nfirms that the Petitioner directed a total of six episodes of the 
~-----------~ series,,__ _______ __.He describes the show and praises the 
Petitioner's ability to understand and "visualize our show's character driven comedy and unique cultural 
perspective." A letter from lofl I Television praises the Petitioner's work on 
two episodes o~ landher"exceptional talent as a director and storyteller," an~ I 
President of I ~ states that he is an "enormous fan" qf..tb..e_fetitioner' s work and soeaks 
highly of the "special touch" she brought to individual episodes ofl___j;howsl IJ ] and I I 
While the authors of these and other letters uniformly offer high praise for the Petitioner and her artistic 
work as a director, they do not comment on whether or how her role has been critical in a way that 
contributed to the success of a production company, television network, or other organization or 
establishment or how her role as an episodic director has otherwise been commensurate with perfonnmg 
in a leading or critical role with their respective organizations. Other letters in the record are from 
executiveproducersot1 ll 1,1 II Ian~ I 
and highlight the Petitioner's work on individual episodes of these shows; however, the producers do not 
speak to the Petitioner's leading or critical role for the production companies that develop the shows or 
the networks that air them. Again, a given individual's role must be leading or critical for a particular 
organization or establishment, rather than for one project, event, or assignment within that organization 
or establishment. 
6 See USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix (statingthatletters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading orcriticalrole can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was lea ding or critic a 1). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she has performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 7 
To document her past earnings, the Petitioner provided her 2019 IRS Forms W-2 and 1099, a copy of 
her 2018 U.S. nonresident tax return, copies of deal memos and evidence of payments she received 
for her work, and letters from the talent agency that represents her, which include additional details 
regarding her earnings from specific projects. The Petitioner's tax documents reflect that she had over 
$404,000 in earnings from her work as a television director in 2019. 
In a cover letter submitted with her initial evidence, the Petitioner cited to data from Payscale and 
Salary.com, noting that her annual earnings in 2019 were significantly higher than the average and 
high salaries for television directors reported by these two sources. 8 However, she also submitted 
data from other sources indicating that salaries for television directors working in southern California 
are significantly higher than the general nationwide figures provided by Payscale and Salary.com. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted Occupational Employment and Wage data for "Producers and 
Directors" from the Department of Labor's Occupational Employment Statistics website. This data, 
which was from May 2016, shows a mean annual wage of $93,840 and a 90th percentile wage of 
$189,870. The mean annual wage in thd I metropolitan area where the Petitioner wotks is 
$141,040, 50.3% higher than the national average. The evidence submitted does not include data on 
what constitutes a "high" salary inl las a point of comparison. Demonstrating that she earns 
above the average wage in thd I area is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Fmiher, because the Petitioner provided evidence that she works on television productions that pay 
directors based on rates set by the Directors Guild of America (DGA), a more relevant point of 
comparison is the DGA's Minimum Salary Schedule, a copy of which was submitted with the initial 
filing. 9 According to this schedule, directors (in 2017-2018) were required to be paid at least $45,981 
for a one-hour network prime time television episode, for a guaranteed period of 15 days' work, with 
$3,065 per day in compensation for any additional days of work. 
7 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2 appendix(notingthatit is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and 
position-appropriate evidence to establish that a sa laryis relatively high). 
8 The data sheprovided fromSala1y.comreporteda mediansalatyof$33,465 forthepositionof"Director- Stage, Motion 
Pictures, Television" and a 90th percentile salary of $47,660. The information provided from Payscale indicates a 
"television director" median salaiy of$65A45 and a 90th percentile salary of$1 70,000. 
9 The Petitioner submitted the DGA's Minimum Salary Schedule valid from July 2017 through June 2018. The evidence 
in the record covers a multi-yearperiod and reflects that these rates undergo an incremental increase on an annual basis. 
We note that the rate for a one-hour network TV episode for the period July I, 2020 through June 30, 2021 was set at 
$48,318, with a daily rate of $3211. See Website of Director's Guild of America, "Basic Agreement Directors," 
https://dga.org/Contracts/Rates-2020-to-2021/BA-FLTTA-Rate-Card/Directors-2020-to-2021.aspx (last visited on June 
30, 2021 ). The same source reports a $46,671 rate for2018-2019 and a $47,371 rate for2019-2020. 
11 
While directors working on DGA-scale television productions may generally earn higher salaries 
compared to directors working on other types of projects, it is reasonable to compare the Petitioner's 
earnings to that of other professional television directors whose pay is also based on this minimum 
salary schedule. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N .D. Ill. 1996)( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salruy 
of other NHL defensemen). 
Based on the evidence of payments she received for individual projects, the Petitioner has not 
established that she has commanded a high salary compared to other similarly employed television 
directors. She submitted three deal memos that she signed in 2017 for episodes o~ II I 
an~ I Each one reflected that she received the minimum salary set forth in the DGA salary 
schedule. A letter from her agent.I l regarding her projected 
earnings (based on one closed deal and seven others in negotiation) indicates that she was expected to 
earn $47,371 per episode for upcoming work in 2020 and 2021. Overall, the initial evidence indicated 
that the Petitioner has earned, and would continue to earn, the minimum salary set by the DGA for 
each of her projects. 
In response to the RFE, the Director submitted two letters froml I ofi J both dated 
July 21, 2020, which a~the Petitioner's earnings relative to the DGA minimum salary. In one 
letter, she indicates thaL_J can confirm that the Petitioner "has been paid above industry standard" 
and states: 
The typical compensation for a DGA hour long drama is $46,371.00 and [the Petilionerl I 
has been P.aid well above that on several shows between 2018 and 2020, including 
c=:::Jfo~ 1($75,447).I lforp<$6o,oo3),c=J 
forC] ($65,33 7),1 I forl 1{$60,597) and I forl_J 
($56,845). 
In the second letterJ I states that "for a Director in the US, the minimum episodic rate for 
an hour-long television series is $46,671 (USD)."I I listed fees the Petitioner earned for 
eight network television episodes in 2018. These fees ranged from ,46,r 1 p...$..6..0..5.. According to 
I I the Petitioner earned $50,666 for directing episode ofL___j but the initial 
evidence, which included the Petitioner's deal memo forth is episode, indicated that she was contracted 
to receive DGA scale fora basic cable episode ($33,775 for 14 days, plus $2,413/day beyond 14 days). 
While the Petitioner may have been paid for extra days of shooting, there is insufficient evidence to 
establish that she was paid well above the DGA scale for this episode. The record does not contain 
copies of contracts or deal memos for the other 2018 projects listed i~ l's letter. 
I I also lists the Petitioner's earnings fer episode for various projects in 2019, indicating 
rates that ranr from $44,383 for an episode of I to $150,895 for two episodes of I The record does not contain the Petitioner's deal mc;mos for these projects completed 
in 2019 but does include other documentation of payments she received for some of this work. For 
example, while the letters from I indicate that the Petitioner commanded a per episode rate of 
12 
approximately $75,000 forl , I other evidence indicates that she received the DGA rate of 
$46,671 per episode, along with $3111 per day for 17 days of extra shooting on the two episodes. 
The letter froni O lalso states that the Petitioner's earnings are "more than double the 
Standard I I TV /Director's Guildl l rate" and place her among the top income earners 
in television inl I However, given that the Petitioner is working on U.S. television projects that 
pay according to the DGA rate, the record does not establish that the Director's Guild I I rates 
provide a relevant point of comparison. 
Finally, while the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has received additional remuneration 
for some of her work in the form of residual payments, she has not provided supporting evidence to 
establish that such remuneration has been "significantly high" when compared to the residual 
payments that others in the field receive, or otherwise shown thathertotal remuneration is significantly 
high. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner satisfies the criterion related to judging at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
but for the reasons discussed above, did not submit evidence that satisfies the criteria relating to 
awards, memberships, published material, original contributions, leading or critical roles, and high 
salary. Although she claims on appeal that she can also satisfy the criterion relating to commercial 
success in the perfmmingarts at8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), we need not reach this additional issue. As 
the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve this criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessaryto the results they reach), see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USeIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
users from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, users is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 e.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 6)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'/, 19 I&N Dec. 593,597 (eomm'r 1988);see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090(6their.1987). 
13 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that satisfy at least three of the ten criteria. Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not supp01i a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner is in the latter category. The evidence establishes that the Petitioner has built a 
successful career in a competitive industry, has earned the high regard of her industry colleagues, and 
has enjoyed an increase in demand for her services in the years leading up to the filing of the petition. 
However, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner, as of the date of filing, 
has garnered the required sustained national or international acclaim in her field, and that she is one 
of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17302836 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 02, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineer who specializes in.__ _________ _, system design, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act ( the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawaihe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently em lo ed as an Executive Assistant Chief En ineer and Mana er of 
Research Center with .__-------------------------===' i-----------~in China. She indicates her intent to continue employment in the design o~ 
.__ ______ _ systems in the United States . 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--(x) . The Petitioner claims that she can satisfy five of these ten criteria, 
summarized below. 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation . 
The Director determined that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in her field 
and authored scholarly articles that appeared in professional publications and therefore meets the criteria 
at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and(vi). The record supports the Director's determination thatthe Petitioner 
satisfies these two criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the three remaining claimed 
criteria. 
After reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, we conclude, for the reasons 
discussed below, that the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial with respect to the 
2 
awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and did not apply the plain language of the regulation to 
the evidence presented with respect to the leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will thereforewithdrawthe Director's decision and remandthematterforfurther 
review and entry of a new decision. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to her receipt of 12 awards in the engineering design field, 
only some of which were specifically referenced in the Director's decision. The Director determined, 
in paii, that "the [petitioner] must demonstrate her own receipt of prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field of endeavor and it appears her employer was the recipient of an award in some instances." 
The Director did identify which awards were excluded from consideration for this reason. 
Nevertheless, we note that all the awards documented in the record were attributed to both the 
Petitioner's employer and to named individual contributors who worked on the award-winning 
engineering projects, including the Petitioner. Further, the Petitioner provided evidence that she 
received individual recognition in the fmm of award ce1iificates from the entities that issued the 
awards. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not impose a requirement that the Petitioner 
be the sole recipient of an award. 
The Director also stated that "the evidence appeared to indicate award recipients were limited to those 
affiliated with I l inherently excluding the entire field." We note that some, but not all, of 1he 
awards documented in the record were presented by thel I I I for engineering design projects that were either completed in I lor completed by I ~based firms. The evidence does not support a determination that all the awards documented 
in the record had a limited geographical scope. In fact, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence of two awards from the Architectural Society of China, a national organization, 
but did not evaluate evidence submitted to establish that such awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
The Director further determined that some of the foreign language materials submitted in support of 
this criterion "were not accompanied by certified English translations in accordance with 8 CFR 
103.2(b )(3)" and as such were not considered probative. The Directordidnotidentifywhichmaterials 
were excluded from consideration for this reason and we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the 
English translations submitted with her foreign language materials were in compliance with the 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The Director concluded his analysis of this criterion with a citation to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(g)(l ), which relates to requirements for initial supporting documents for employment-based 
immigrant classifications. This regulation addresses the submission of photocopies and evidence 
related to qualifying experience or training. The Director did not explain how the cited regulation 
relates to the evidence submitted in support of this criterion or reach a conclusion that the Petitioner's 
evidence was not in compliance with this regulation. 
3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contestthe decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). For the reasons discussed above, the Director's 
analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the awards criterion did not adequately address the 
evidence submitted or provide the Petitioner with adequate notice of the reasons such evidence was 
determined to be deficient. 
The plain language of this criterion requires that the Petitioner be a recipient of an award, that the 
award was granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, and that the award is recognized 
at the national or international level. 1 Therefore, on remand, the Director should reevaluate this 
evidence to determine whether the Petitioner was a recipient of an award, as well as whether any 
awards she received were for excellence in the field of engineering design. If so, the Director should 
then determine whether any such awards are nationally or internationally recognized in the Petitioner's 
field. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In evaluating the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided a letter from her current employerJ I I l which describes her position as Executive Assistant Chief Engineer and 
Manager of thl !Research Center. 
However, the Director's discussion of this criterion primarily focused on whether the evidence 
established that the Petitioner had made original contributions of major significance in her field, a 
separate evidentiary criterion found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which the Director had already 
addressed in his decision. For example, in discussing the leading or critical roles criterion, the 
Director emphasized that "the [petitioner's] original contributions in the field must be demonstrated 
by preexisting, independent corroborating evidence." Further, the analysis of this criterion concludes 
with a determination that" [ w ]ithout extensive documentation showing that the [petitioner's] work has 
been unusually influential, highly acclaimed at the national or international level, or has otherwise 
risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field, we cannot conclude that 
she meets this criterion." The Petitioner does not need to establish that she has made nationally or 
internationally acclaimed original contributions of major significance to satisfy the plain language of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The issue of whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in the sustained national and 
international acclaim required for this classification is an evaluation to be made in the final merits 
determination in cases where the individual has satisfied the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 ); this standard should not be applied to individual evidentiary criteria. In addition to the 
language quoted above, the Director's analysis of this criterion included a statement that "[t]here is no 
1 Sec Kazarian, 596F.3d at 1121 
4 
evidence to indicate reactions from the scientific community, professional organizations or references 
by researchers or experts places her at the top of her field" and observes that the evidence does not 
show the Petitioner's "acclaim in the field." Again, in evaluating an individual's eligibility as an 
extraordinary ability alien under the multi-part analysis required by the regulations, a determination 
as to whether the Petitioner is at the "top of her field" should be reserved for a final merits 
determination. SeeKazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010).2 
The repeated references to "original contributions" and the imposition of a requirement that the 
Petitioner establish that she is "at the top of her field," reflect that the Director did not apply the plain 
language of this criterion or the appropriate standard to the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion. The Director only briefly addresses the elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) and did not evaluate the evidence according to those elements. The decision 
mentions that the Petitioner did not provide "a hierarchical chart" or similar evidence to support the 
assertion that she held a leading role for an organization or establishment. However, the record 
contains a detailed chart illustrating the placement of her position within the management structure of I ~ It appears that the Director did not review this 
relevant evidence in evaluating whether the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitioner also claimed that she erformed in a leadin or critical 
role with her prior employer, ______ -==------------------- The 
Director's decision does not acknowledge this claim or address the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
to establish that she held a qualifying role with this company. 
On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion to determine if she has performed in leading or critical roles for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a full final merits determination. On remand, the Director 
should review the evidence of record consistent with the analysis provided above, including the 
Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted on appeal. If the Director determines that the Petitioner 
meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 We observe that, theDirector's analysis of the original contributions criterionat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(5) was generally 
sufficient to inform the Petitioner why her evidence did not establish the major significance of her contributions in her 
field. However, the Director also noted that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not "demonstrate her 
national and international acclaim." The Director should refrain from applying this standard when evaluating this criterion 
on remand. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10296240 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 07, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior product manager in the field of cloud computing, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 
U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
established that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria, it did not demonstrate his sustained 
national or international acclaim or that he is one of the very few at the top of his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and evidence and asserts his eligibility for the classification 
sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to original contributions, leading or critical role, and 
high salary. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established eligibility for the criteria 
related to membership and to judging. On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges the Director's 
conclusion that he meets the criteria related to original contributions, leading or critical role, and high 
salary, but also contends that he has established eligibility for the membership criterion.1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets the criteria related to high 
salary and leading or critical role. However, contrary to the Director's finding, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the criteria related to original contributions. Further, we 
agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet the membership criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion as he is a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE). The record contains an e-mail notification and a letter from IEEE 
establishing that the Petitioner is a senior member of that organization. It also includes the IEEE 2016 
Annual Repmi and 2018 IEEE Constitution and Bylaws demonstrating that this organization is in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
1 The Petitioner does not contestthe Director's conclusion that he has not satisfied the judging crite1ion. Accordingly we 
deem the issue waived and will not address it in our analysis. 
2 
However, the Petitioner must also show that in order to obtain senior membership, he was judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field 
of cloud computing. 2 To establish this, the Petitioner provides the IEEE senior member requirements 
and a document titled "IEEE Admission and Advancement Review Panel (AARP) Meeting Schedule" 
describing the selection process. The IEEE senior membership requirements state that a candidate for 
senior membership should be "an engineer, scientist, educator, technical executive originator" in the 
fields of engineering, computer sciences and in formation tech no logy ,physical sciences, biological and 
medical sciences, mathematics, and/or technical communications, education, management, law and 
policy. In addition, candidates must "have been in professional practice for at least ten years" and 
"have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years." The IEEE 
requirements document advises that "[ m Jany prospective applicants make the mistake of assuming 
that "significant performance" requires special awards, patents, or other extremely sophisticated 
technical accomplishments, but this is not the case" as '"[ s ]ubstantial job responsibilities such as team 
leader, task supervisor ... all are indications of significant performance." The IEEE senior membership 
requirements do not indicate that the IEEE requires outstanding achievements of its senior members 
as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
Similarly, the AARP meeting schedule document does not state criteria by which the AARP selects 
IEEE senior members. Instead, the document identifies the locations for AARP meetings, states that 
the meeting should be presided over by the AARP Chair and/or Vice Chair, and provides that 
applicants should submit their application, resume, and required reference forms atleastten days prior 
to the AARP meeting. The record lacks other evidence demonstrating that IEEE requires outstanding 
achievements of its senior members as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in 
the field. Absent materials showing this, the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner 
satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director in this matter. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As mentioned, we conclude that the record does not establish the Petitioner made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled 
this criterion but did not identify the original contributions made by the Petitioner or the evidence on 
which he relied to make this finding. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 1he 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (indicating that the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.) 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that his development of the I I software an;..;;:d;....;:a=n:cJ...I ____ __., 
.__ _______ _. tool forD satisfies this criterion. With respe,....c_t_t_o_t_h_e~l----------1 
software, the Petitioner provides letters, a PowerPoint presentation titled I _ _ 
' and press releases and news articles about the software. 3 The 
..,.1-et-te_r_s----,-in-th:-e_r_e_c_o_rd-,--d:-e-m-on-st_ra_t~e the Petitioner's involvement in the deverpmer of the I I I !software. For example] l princ~stems architect at asserts that the 
Petitioner "founded the I l software" aL_J and explains how the Petitioner's wmk 
has impacted I Is ability to provide services to its customers. I IVice President of 
Products a~._ __________ __.l 4 states that the Petitioner "has proved essential to some of 
the most important technological innovations our company has made including thel 117 
[ I' and explains that the technology has reduced costs for~'s customers. Howev'erQ I I does not specifically articulate how cost saving forl ~s customers reflects the major 
significance of either the Petitioner's role in the development of the technology or the technology itself 
in the field of cloud computing. 
Thus, whild land I I explain how the Petitioner's development of the tool has been 
of major significance tol and to its customers, they do not specifically articulate how this 
development is of major significance to the field of cloud computing as a whole. Letters that 
specifically aiiiculate how the alien's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact 
on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to 
be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 Without detailed specific 
examples demonstrating how the Petitioner's contributions to the development of thd I 
are of major significance in the field, these letters are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
The PowerPoint presentation in the record, while authored by the Petitioner, describes his role in 
identifying potential clients for thel I tool and business opportunities forl I Here 
the Petitioner does not explain or submit evidence to establish how identifying clients is an original 
contribution in the field of cloud computing. Finally, we note that while press releases and media 
indicate the importance and implementation ofthel I tool in the Petitioner's field, they 
do not identify the Petitioner, attribute the software to him, or otherwise reflect the major significance 
of the Petitioner's role in its development. 
Regarding thd I tool, the Petitioner submits letters of recommendation, PowerPoint presentations, 
technical documentation, and news articles to show that the0 tool has been implemented by other 
companies. The PowerPoint presentations authored by the Petitioner detail the step-by-step 
development of thel I tool and identify him as one of three team members responsible for the 
management o1 the pf°duct. This documentation is sufficient to establish the Petitioner's role in 
developing the tool and the news articles and letters of recommendation about the tool 
demonstrate that it constitutes an original contribution. 
3 While we address only a sarouJe nftbe Jett, here, we ha vereviewedand considered each one in the record. 
4 The record reflects tha~~--------~ 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3dat 134-135 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
However, the record does not demonstrate the tool's major significance in the field of cloud 
computing. The letters of recommendation describe its importance of the0 too 1 to and impact on 
each author's employer. For example,! I notes that the Petitioner "is credited for initiating 
and delivering a number of key strategic initiatives such a'-L----r--------,,-- ______ __J 
I r and describes its importance tol I SiTilarlyr ~--------< . ctor of sales at I l describes his company's selection o tool, noting that ~~ solution really 
shines among other solutions in the industry" and that this tool is leading "to sigQificant sav~ngs" for I 
his organization. While this evidence demonstrates the importance of this tool tol bnd t I lit is insufficient to show the major significance of theD tool in the field. 
Regarding the news articles, they show that a law firm and a state university now utilize theOtool. 
However, the Petitioner does not explain or provide evidence showing how a law firm and university 
are representative of the field of cloud computing such that their use demonstrates its widespread use 
in that field. Without information showing how the D tool has widely impacted or been 
implemented in the field of cloud computing as a whole, these letters do not establish that the I I 
tool is an original contribution of major significance in the field of cloud computing. 6 
For the above stated reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion and we will withdraw the 
Director's finding in this matter. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asse1is that he meets this criterion through his development of theOtool discussed 
above. Here the record includes the PowerPoint presentations describing the duties he performed in 
so doing and the press releases and letters demonstra1ng thy its development has been critical for I I The Petitioner also submits documentation abou to establish its distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly we agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The record provides an employment certification from his employer establishing his base salary and 
comparable salary documentation for seniorproductmanagers from Glassdoor, Pay Scale, and the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. This evidence demonstrates thatthe Petitioner's base salary is high relative 
to that of other senior product managers. Accordingly we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
For the above stated reasons, and contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has 
not submitted documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Thus, while the 
Petitioner asse1is on appeal that the record demonstrates his sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor, we need not reach this 
6 Id. 
5 
issue. We will reserve it as the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).7 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in 
the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16666105 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 08, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition but later revoked the 
approval after issuing a notice of intent to revoke. The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The matter is now 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;Mattera/Cheung, 12 I&NDec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. 450,452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the combined motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
A. The Classification Sought 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinaiy 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term '·extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010). 
B. Revocation of an Approved Petition 
Section 205 of the Act states: "The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he 
deems to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under 
section 204. Such revocation shall be effective as of the date of approval of any such petition." 
Regarding the revocation of an immigrant petition under section 205 of the Act, the Board of 
Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter ofEstime ... , this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582,590 (BIA 1988) (quotingMatter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision" which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by 
2 
documentary evidence sufficient to warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision 
to dismiss the appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and affinned the revocation decision, concluding that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he could satisfy at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only one criterion, at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires documentation of memberships in associations that require 
outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in the field. We disagreed with the Director and withdrew his determination that the Petitioner had 
satisfied this criterion. We also determined, upon de nova review of the record, that the Petitioner 
had submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), which relates to judging the work of others in his field, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
which relates to authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Finally, we agreed with the Director's determination that the record did not support the Petitioner's 
claims that he had made original contributions of major significance in his field or that he has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix). As we determined that the Petitioner did not meet the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
did not proceed to a final merits determination. 
In addition to addressing the merits of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability claim, we considered the 
Petitioner's argument that the Director's notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) provided inadequate notice 
of the proposed grounds forrevocation. Specifically, the Petitioner claimed on appeal that "the Service 
based the majority of its analysis and reasons ofrevocation on their fraud or willful misrepresentation 
claim." He emphasized since the notice of revocation did not make any reference to fraud or material 
misrepresentation of a material fact, "there was not sufficient evidence of record at the time of the 
notice that would deem the intention to revoke 'good and sufficient cause."' 
We acknowledged that the Director raised concerns regarding the authenticity of the recommendation 
letters in the record in the NOIR. However, we observed that Director also explained in detail why 
the documentation in the record at the time the NOIR was issued did not satisfy at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and addressed each of the claimed criteria 
independently. In addition, we determined that the notice of revocation explained the reasons for 
revocation, that it provided support for the conclusions reached regarding the Petitioner's eligibility 
based on the evidence of record, and that the Petitioner had adequate notice and an opportunity to 
respond prior to the written notice ofrevocation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and (c). 
B. The Petitioner's Combined Motion 
On motion the Petitioner, asserts that, based on the record before us at the time of the appeal, we 
incorrectly determined that he did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
He also submits additional evidence relating to this criterion. In addition, he submits new evidence in 
support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix), and asserts that, with this new evidence, he has 
3 
now demonstrated that he commands a high salary in relation to others in his field. We will address 
these two evidentiary criteria below.1 
Before turning to the evidentiary criteria, we note that the Petitioner also repeats his previous claim 
that the Director did not have good and sufficient cause to revoke the approval of the petition. He 
asserts that the suspected fraudorwillfulmisrepresentation mentioned in the Director's NOIR "f 01med 
the entire basis for the NOIR" and maintains that the Director should not have revoked the approval if 
there was ultimately no finding of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
As discussed above, the Petitioner made this argument on appeal and we addressed the merits of his 
claim in our prior decision. Specifically, we determined that the NOIR provided the Petitioner with 
adequate notice of the deficiencies that formed the grounds for revocation and afforded him the 
opportunity to respond to those deficiencies as required by 8 C.F.R. § 205 .2(b) and ( c ). The record 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that any suspected fraud or willful misrepresentation "formed 
the entire basis for the NOIR." 
To meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must establish that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in our decision dismissing the appeal. Here, the Petitioner simply 
repeats his claims that the Director did not have good and sufficient cause to revoke the approval of 
his petition, rather than addressing the specific conclusions we reached in our appellate decision with 
respect to this issue. In fact, the Petitioner does not acknowledge that we addressed this issue in our 
decision. Accordingly, he has not established with the current motion that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in concluding that the Director complied with the regulations governing 
revocation of an approved immigrant petition. 
C. Evidentiary Criteria 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that he met only two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x) and therefore did not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification. On motion, he asserts that he can meet the two criteria discussed 
below. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the jieldjor which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines orfields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The Petitionerdoesnotpursuehis previous claim that he can satisfy the criterion related to originalcontributions of major 
significanceat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and we consider this claim to be waived. See, e.g.,MatterojM-A-S-,24I&NDec. 
762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL471 1885 at* I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011 )(the court determinedtheplaintiff's 
claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
4 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must submit documentation of their membership in associations 
in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their 
members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines. 
The Petitioner claims that he can satisfy this criterion based on his admission as a "Senior Member" 
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He submitted proof of his membership 
as well as excerpts from the IEEE bylaws which address the requirements for Senior Members. 
According to the bylaws, "a candidate shall be an engineer, scientist, educator, technical executive or 
originator in IEEE-designated fields ... The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at 
least ten years and shall have shown significant performance of a period of at least five of those years." 
The bylaws further specify that "significant performance" can take the form of "[p ]ublication of 
papers, books, or inventions." 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the IEEE's stated requirements for admission as a Senior 
Member (ten years of relevant experience and "significant performance" consisting of publication of 
papers, books or inventions) do not rise to the level of"outstandingachievements" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. We also observed that the evidence indicated that the IEEE has a "Fellow'' 
membership grade that appears to align more closely with the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Specifically, we noted that, according to the submitted IEEE bylaws, Fellow 
membership requires "an outstanding record of accomplishments" that have "contributed importantly 
to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology." In addition, we noted that 
one can apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and 
election at the highest levels of the association. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that we misconstrued the IEEE Senior Member requirements, 
asserting that it "does not just require '10 years of relevant experience in a particular field' and 
'publication of papers, books and inventions.'" He emphasizes that "much more is required," and that 
he also had to demonstrate "professional maturity," "significant performance of at least 5 years," and 
provide three references from "other IEEE elite members." The Petitioner emphasizes some of his 
own professional achievements and asserts that the IEEE judging panel would have considered his 
professional positions, his publication in journals with international reputation, and his peer review 
service in determining his qualifications for senior membership. He maintains that only 9% ofIEEE's 
428,000 members reach the Senior Member level and that it is "an extremely elite group." 
The Petitioner further argues that we placed undue weight on the phrase "significant performance," in 
the IEEE bylaws, "insinuating that 'significant' cannot mean the same type of achievement as that 
which USCIS calls 'outstanding."' He emphasizes that "the actual Senior Member requirements, 
when looked at together, demonstrate that a member must have 'outstanding achievements' as used 
by USCIS." Further, the Petitioner notes that the examples of "significant performance" in the IEEE 
bylaws are not exhaustive and that judging panels "perform a rigorous review of a professional' s entire 
record, looking at everything together, to determine if the individual has met the requirements to be 
allowed into the elite membership group." 
The Petitioner also objects to our reference to the IEEE's stated requirements for Fellow membership, 
arguing that "[t]o suggest that Senior Member grade does not meet the requirements of this criteria 
because there is another membership class would take away from an objective analysis of the 
5 
requirements for the particular membership which the individual holds." He notes that, despite our 
observation that Fellow membership in the IEEE requires a nomination rather than an application, the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) contains no nomination requirement. The Petitioner maintains 
that "Senior Membership clearly does require outstanding achievements and it is not for AAO to guess 
as to why the IEEE has created additional membership grades." 
In addition, the Petitioner submits additional evidence in suppmi of his claim that his Senior 
membership in IEEE satisfies this criterion, including e-mail correspondence froml~------~ 
the IEEE's~-------------~ and a screenshot of the "Requirements for IEEE 
Senior Member Grade" from the association's website. 
~---~ts e-mail describes the application process for the Senior Member grade, noting that 
applicants must have three references from current IEEE members who have a grade of Senior 
Member or higher. He explains that applications are evaluated by a Senior Member Panel (usually 
local IEEE section members who have a Senior Member grade or higher) of at least two panelists, 
who evaluate applications to determine if an applicant meets the 10 years of Professional Experience 
and 5 years of Significant Performance requirements. He refers to the IEEE website for additional 
information regarding what constitutes "significant perfonnance." 
The IEEE' s website states that "[ m ]any prospective applicants make the mistake of assuming that 
'significant performance' requires special awards, patents, or other extremely sophisticated technical 
accomplishments, but that is not the case." The IEEE's description of significant performance 
indicates that"[ s ]ubstantialjob responsibilities such as team leader, task supervisor, engineer in charge 
of a program or project, engineer or scientist performing research with some measure of success 
(papers) or faculty developing and teaching courses ... are all indications of significantperfmmance." 
The new evidence submitted on motion does not support the Petitioner's claim that admission as a 
Senior Member in IEEE requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. The additional evidence sheds additional light on what the IEEE 
regards as "significant performance" but does not demonstrate that the IEEE's standards for meeting 
that threshold rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" as contemplated by the plain language 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While this membership level does not appear to be available to all 
professionals with 10 years of experience in the field, we cannot conclude that holding a team leader 
position, a project manager position, a faculty position, or a research position that results in 
publications amounts to exhibiting "outstanding achievements" in one of the IEEE-designated fields. 
These are certainly noteworthy professional accomplishments and some persons who are elevated to 
Senior Member likely exceed the minimum requirements. However, to demonstrate that his 
membership satisfies the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that IEEE requires 
Senior Members to have "outstanding achievements" as an essential condition of membership. 
As noted by the Petitioner, we observed in our prior decision that the IEEE has another membership 
level, Fellow Member, which requires "unusual distinction" and an "outstanding record of 
accomplishments." We agree with the Petitioner that the existence of this higher-level membership 
grade does not automatically lead to a conclusion that the Senior Member grade does not satisfy this 
criterion. However, the evidence contained in the IEEE bylaws provides useful contextregardinghow 
the association views a prospective member's qualifications. The existence of two different elevated 
6 
levels of membership with different stated requirements indicates that the IEEE does not consider the 
"significant performance" required for Senior membership to be equivalent to the "outstanding 
accomplishments" required for Fellow membership. As discussed above, the additional information 
from the IEEE website regarding what it deems to be "significant performance," does not support a 
conclusion that "significant performance" in an IEEE-designated field equates to "outstanding 
achievements" in the field as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Further, based otj ts description of the application review process for Senior membership, 
the record does not establish that prospective Senior Members are admitted only after having their 
achievements judged by "recognized national or international experts in the field" as required by 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The only stated requirement for participation in a Senior Member Panel is to 
be a Senior Member of the IEEE. While the Petitioner refers to Senior Members as an "elite group," 
the record does not establish that admission to a Senior Member grade is reserved solely for expe1ts 
who are recognized at the national or international level. 
For all the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in determining that he does not meet the membership criterion, nor does the new 
evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations.2 
The Petitioner documented his earnings for the years 2013 and 2016. Specifically, he provided 
evidence that he received an annual salary of $101,923 for al !Minnesota-based position 
as a "Systems Accounting Manager," in 2013. In addition, he provided evidence that he received an 
annual salary of $115,000 while working as an "ERP functional business manager" inl I 
Florida in 2016. In dismissing the appeal, we observed that the Petitioner did not provide position­
appropriate comparative wage evidence to establish that his salary in one or both years was high in 
relation to others in the same geographic area and occupation. Specifically, we noted that he provided 
screenshots from the O*Net online database and Foreign Labor Certification Data Center (FLCDC) 
for "Computer Occupations, All Other," but did not provide comparative wage data applicable to his 
occupational title as a manager in the IT field. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits an O*Net Online Summary Report for the occupation of 
"Information Technology Project Manager," as well as O*Net Online local wage reports for this 
occupation for thd I Minnesota and I I Florida metropolitan areas. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that this new evidence demonstrates that the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) includes 
the "Inf mmation Technology Project Manager" occupation under "Computer Occupations, All 
2 Sec 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual(notingthatit is the petitioner's bunien 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
Other," and therefore the evidence he submitted previously did in fact provide an appropriate basis for 
companson. 
The evidence does not establish, however, that all managerial occupations in the information 
technology field are "project managers" that fall under the "Computer Occupations, All Other" 
category. In fact, the "IT project manager" is the only managerial title that falls under this category, 
which also includes web administrators, geographic infonnation systems (GIS) technicians, 
information security engineers, and document management specialists.3 For example, Computer and 
Information Systems Managers are classified separately, with separate wage data reported by BLS. 4 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he earned an annual salary of $101,923 in 2013 for the 
position of "Systems Accounting Manager" while working forl I in I I The new evidence submitted on motion shows that, according to BLS 2019 wage data, 
the median salary for an "IT Project Manager" inl I is $84,940, the 7 5th percentile wage is 
$113,130, and the 90th percentile wage for this occupation is $135,680. He also provides a document 
labeled "May 2013 OES Estimates" for "Computer Occupations, All Other," showing estimated 
statewide Minnesota wages for 2013. This document indicates a mean annual salary of $74,230, a 
75th percentile salary of $92,020, and a 90th percentile salary of $113,500.5 
The record does not contain a description of the duties the Petitioner performed as "Systems 
Accounting Manager," so we cannot determine to what extent his duties were consistent with those of 
an "IT Project Manager" as described in the O*Net summary report. Even assuming that this is the 
appropriate occupational classification, his 2013 earnings fell somewhere between 7 5th and 90th 
percentile when com ared to estimated statewide figures for Minnesota for 2013, which were likely 
lower tha wages. While his 2013 salary is also above the median when compared 
to.__ _______ __.figures for 2019, demonstrating that his salary is above the mean or median 
salary in the geographic area of employment is not sufficient to establish that he commanded a "high 
salary." 
In 2016, the Petitioner eam,d a base annual salry of $i115,000 as an "ERP functional business 
manager" while working for lin the Florida region. On motion, he submits 
evidence that, in 2019, the median salary for an ''Information Technology Project Manager" in this 
region was $65,680, the 75th percentile wage was $82,530, and the 90th percentile wage was $98,340. 
Because the Petitioner seeks to rely on his earnings from 2016, the relevant comparative data would 
be data from that year. With respectto that data he states, "[l]ooking at historical BLS data from 2016 
in Florida, we find thatfor"ComputerOccupations, All Other" the mean annual salary for the relevant 
region was actually higher at $74,91 O." He provides a link to the source of this information, but the 
source does not include any additional data from 2016. While it appears that his salary was higher 
than the 2016 average salary for an "Information Technology Project Manager," the regulation 
3 Sec Summary Report for 15 .1299.00 -Computer Occupations, All Other, https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/15-
1299 .00, lastaccessedon Jul. 7, 2021. 
4 See Summary Report for 11-3021.00-Computerand Information Systems Managers, https://www.onetonline.org/link/ 
summary/11-3021.00, last accessed on Jul. 7,2021. 
5 The record reflects that in 2019, the Minnesota statewide salaries reported on O*Net Online were lower than those 
reported forthq I region. 
8 
requires that the Petitioner demonstrate a "high salary" rather than an "above average" salary. There 
is insufficient evidence to support his claim that his salary was high in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10948019 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neurological surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 5 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her diploma of medicine in 2006 and lrer srcialized in neurosurgery. After 
serving as the chief resident at I !university in the Petitioner embarked on two 
fellowships; one atl I university in I l and the second where she currently works at the 
University o~ las a research fellow. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following 
seven categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to judging and 
authorship of scholarly articles, but that she had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met the evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas 
upon which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then. if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). 
2 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but not any of the remaining claimed classes of evidence. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided student awards, research grants, and travel awards under this criterion. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet these requirements and noted that student awards 
limited to a specific subset of individuals did not qualify because they excluded those already in the 
field. As it relates to the Petitioner's research grants and travel awards, the Director found that she 
did not establish these were awarded for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner responds to 
some of the elements the Director listed as shortcomings, but she still has not satisfied the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims the accolades she received as a student were thel !university of 
.__ _____ ___,t best young researcher, and the top researcher awards at the 10th and 11th research 
festival, respectively. The Director determined that these awards did not satisfy this criterion because 
they were limited to attendees at the issuing institution and because the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that accolades from such a limited pool were given for excellence "in the field" rather than to those in 
training to join the field. Although the Petitioner's appeal brief mentions these student awards in 
passing, she does not contest the Director's decision or explain how those accolades qualify. Issues 
addressed in this perfunctory manner are considered abandoned on appeal. 6 The Petitioner does not 
assert eligibility on appeal relying on any research grants and we also consider those claims to be 
abandoned. 7 
The only travel award the Petitioner identifies on appeal is the 2013 .__ _______ _. Young 
Researcher A ward. A review of the evidence does not bear out that this award was for excellence in 
the field. The record contains documentation from the issuing organization that the competition 
included the following requirements: the applicants were from a pool who resided in thd I 
who were under 40 years of age, and the candidates were at least published in a regional, non-indexed 
medical journal. Additionally, candidates for this award were "evaluated based on a predefined set of 
criteria including the relevance of the research question, its clinical impact, and novelty value, the 
study design, the results and their interpretation." The Petitioner has not explained how these 
cumulative factors would equate to recognition of "excellence in the field of endeavor." Furthermore, 
although some of the advisory letters from those in her field implied that this was a major award, they 
did not explain how this accolade was a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence 
in the field of endeavor, and most contained very similar language listing the benefits the award's 
beneficiaries received. 
6 Minghai Tian v. Holder, 745 F.3d 822, 827 (7th Cir. 2014) (stating that "an argument consisting of more than a 
generalized assertion of error" is required to hold that an issue has not been waived); Desravines v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 343 F. 
App'x 433, 435 (11th Cir. 2009) (a passing reference in the arguments section of a brief without substantive arguments is 
insufficient to raise that ground on appeal). See, e.g.. Leer v. Mwphy, 844 F.2d 628, 634 (9th Cir. 1988) ("Issues raised in 
a brief that are not supported by an argument are deemed abandoned."). 
7 Matter of Zhang, 27 l&N Dec. 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that an issue not appealed is deemed as abandoned). 
3 
After considering the Petitioner's claims and evidence, she has not met the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed her membership in three organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's 
material, the Director determined that she did not meet the requirements of this criterion because she 
did not establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership. Within the appeal, the Petitioner does not identify any error on the Director's part as it 
relates to this criterion. Instead, she maintains that the memberships she has attained qualify under 
this criterion. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that any 
of the claimed organizations require outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. First, we 
consider the American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS). The Petitioner presented 
evidence that she held "resident/fellow" membership in this organization. She submitted the AANS 
membership requirements for the resident/fellow level, which consisted of "proof of enrollment in a 
verifiable non-North American neurosurgical training program," and "a recommendation for 
membership by your training program director." Absent from this material is a showing that AANS 
utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective 
members to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that 
AANS used this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership at the 
resident/fellow level. Each of these are mandatory requirements within the regulation. 
The next organization was the Congress of Neurological Surgeons (CNS) and the Petitioner was a 
member at the resident level. The Petitioner submitted CNS' bylaws reflecting resident membership 
will "be available to any resident in good standing in" certain accreditation organizations in the United 
States, Mexico, or Canada, "or any fellow in a fellowship immediately following completion of an 
accredited neurological surgery training program." These standards do not reflect that CNS requires 
outstanding achievements of its resident members, and as such this organization does not satisfy this 
criterion's requirements. 
Finally, the Petitioner discusses the European Association of Neurosurgical Societies (EANS). The 
Petitioner documented her membership in this organization. The material relating to EANS reflected 
that candidates who pass both parts of a board examination would be appointed as a Fellow of the 
European Board of Neurological Surgery (FEBNS). The Petitioner asserts that EANS membership as 
a fellow in FEBNS "is evidence of the excellence in neurosurgery that a major society in Europe 
appointed non-European citizens from thel las a" FEBNS fellow. The Petitioner did not 
explain how, and the record lacks documentary support for her conclusion that, as a condition of 
membership simply passing two board examinations amounts to outstanding achievements. It is 
insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient 
4 
evidence, which proves the allegation. 8 As a result, the Petitioner has not shown that EANS 
membership qualifies under this criterion. 
On appeal the Petitioner places significant focus on aspects outside of the minimum membership 
requirements of each entity ( e.g., statements made within multiple advisory letters), but she does not 
explain how any of the organizations require outstanding achievements as one of the minimum 
requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner provided information relating to published comments about three 
of her recent scholarly articles. The Director did not consider citations to her scholarly work to meet 
the plain language requirements of this criterion as that material was not "about the alien" and instead 
was focused on her scholarly work. On appeal, the Petitioner shifts her focus from the claims and 
evidence she offered the before Director to a public announcement relating to an award. 
As evidence of published material about her, the Petitioner identified a public announcement about 
her receipt of thel I award on the issuing entity's website. Here, the Petitioner did not provide 
the elements required by the regulation in the form of the material's date and author. This shortcoming 
alone means this evidence cannot meet this criterion's requirements. Additionally, the Petitioner did 
not offer any discussion of how the posting of competition results on this organization's website 
equates to one of the qualifying publication types ( a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media). Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner presented evidence that she has reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication in BMJ 
Case Reports. The Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and 
we agree with the Director's conclusion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided citations to her published work, to include scholarly articles and book 
chapters, as well as several advisory letters from those in her field that discussed her work. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. In particular, 
8 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
5 
the Director noted the Petitioner's citations to her published works, but concluded that she did not 
demonstrate her record established that she had a citation record that measured up to other 
neurosurgical researchers and in turn, she did not show that her work was of major significance in the 
field. The Director also briefly discussed the advisory opinion letters but did not find that they 
collectively showed that she meets this criterion. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she made contributions that were original 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted it, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not identify any particular error the Director may have committed under 
this requirement other than to disagree with his adverse conclusion. Although the Petitioner adds 
similar claims relating to her evidence, she does not offer any particular information for us to consider 
beyond what the Director evaluated. Some of the information and evidence the Petitioner offers within 
the appeal, to include citations to her work, postdates the Form I-140 filing date. A petitioner must 
establish eligibility at the time it files the nonimmigrant visa petition. 9 USCIS may not approve a visa 
petition if the Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but expects to become eligible at a 
subsequent time. 10 When she filed the petition, the Petitioner provided evidence about her citation 
record from Google Scholar reflecting her publication of 22 articles that had garnered citations. 
Other researchers' reliance on the Petitioner's work is a positive element and can be a method to 
corroborate the assertion that her noteworthy influence on other's work establishes that her 
contributions in the field are of major significance. However, The Petitioner has not sufficiently 
explained how a scholarly article receiving 24 citations, or 21 other articles sharing 87 citations, 
exhibits her impact within the field in a manner consistent with this criterion's requirements. For 
example, she did not provide the citation rates of other published research in her field that is widely 
recognized as a contribution of major significance for comparison purposes. Nor has the Petitioner 
shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed unusual reliance on her work. Specifically, 
the example citations in the record cite the Petitioner's study as one of dozens of other studies, and do 
not single out the Petitioner's work as significantly notable among other research in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that her citation record "is quite large since the community of 
Neurological surgeons is small .... " Even though the Petitioner provided advisory opinion letters 
whose authors claimed that the field related to neurological surgery is a small percentage of physicians 
worldwide, neither the authors nor the Petitioner offered probative material to enable us to evaluate 
that claim. We note that some of the published material citing to her work has garnered significantly 
more cites than an of her own articles. For instance her article titled, I I 
'---------------------------' had received five cites at the time she 
filed her petition. One of those articles that cited to her work titled, 
'----~----~~~---------------~-------- ........... received 
at least 3 5 5 citations by the time the Petitioner filed her Form I-140. This article citing to her own 
work was published approximately six months later, yet it garnered exponentially more attention than 
9 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
10 See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971 ). 
6 
even the Petitioner's most cited work. This tends to undermine the claims that her citation record is 
large because her specialized field contains fewer participants. 
Additionall the article titled 
.__ _ ___.' earned more than 100 cites by the Petitioner's priority date, yet her article that this work cites 
to was her most favorable piece with only 24 citations. Although her citations indicate some in the 
field have referenced her work, the Petitioner did not offer comparative material showing her citation 
numbers rose to the level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 11 
As it relates to the advisory opinion letters in the record, the do not describe si nificant contributions 
the Petitioner has already made in the field. For instance,L--,---.,.,--r------,1 a professor and the 
director of the I lsurgery program at the University of .__ __ ___. who supervises the 
Petitioner's fellowship, discussed how the citations to her work had increased from 57 at the start of 
her fellowship to 111 on the petition filing date. He surmised that this demonstrated that her "work 
has been among the most cited in the field in the past several years, and she has been consistently cited 
more than one would expect from an average researcher in the Neurological Surgery field." Absent 
additional evidence, an above average citation rate is insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner has 
made contributions of major significance in her field. Contributions of major significance connotes 
that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. 12 
~---____.I also discussed the prevalence and costs of neurological diseases and tied those important 
factors to some of the Petitioner's work. In particular he focused on a new surgical approach the 
Petitioner described in a published article. I I noted this procedure received editorial 
comments from leading surgeons and concluded that "[t]his provides just one example of the 
importance of her published work, providing evidence of how her prospective work can revolutionize 
... treatment options, by the careful development and researching of new techniques." He further 
stated that her "work will provide substantial benefits to the United States by improving treatments 
and lowering medical costs." While a prospective benefit to the United States is one of this 
classification's separate requirementsJ I did not describe how the Petitioner's work has 
already been so influential on her field. Although the procedure I I highlighted would 
appear to be an incremental improvement to the general pool of knowledge, the record does not support 
the position that this development was widely adopted in her field at the time she filed the petition. 
When reviewing the letter frortj l a professor atl I University and her supervisor 
at her fellowship at his university, we observe that he presented identical language found within D 
I Is letter relating to the Beneficiary and the importance of her work. Considering the remaining 
portion oti ts letter, he discussed the Petitioner's achievements and career, and he noted 
one of the Petitioner's published works that included a video received over 1,200 views on the Journal of 
Neurosurgery's YouTube channel. I I asserted that because this video accumulated the 
highest number of views in comparison with other articles in the same publication issue, that this proved 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua/F.2 app .. https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (Policy Manual) (providing an example that 
peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as 
authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
12 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. 
7 
the importance of her work. First, although the Petitioner provided material relating to this video 
refl,...,._........_......,.,_.,_,.. ......... .....,.,,O views, she did not offer material relating to the other videos in this same publication 
tha referenced, and thus the record does not support his assertions. Second, even if0 
~--~' s claims are true, his letter does not establish that the video made a significant impact within 
the Petitioner's field. 
The remaining letters the Petitioner submitted briefly discussed her skills and achievements, but they 
did not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact her 
research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 13 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.14 As a result, 
the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of serving as the author of several published scholarly articles in 
addition to multiple chapters in a scientific handbook related to her field. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with that determination. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she performed in a leading or critical role by presenting 
her work at professional conferences, and for three instances in which she served as a course instructor 
at the University ofi I The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. The Director noted that conference presentations did not satisfy the 
requirement that she perform the qualifying role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. Relating to her role as a course instructor, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not show her role was leading or critical for the university as a whole, rather than for 
one of its components or departments. 15 
Within the appeal the Petitioner presents the same claims she offered before the Director. Her appeal 
brief does not make any reference to the Director's analysis, nor does it explain how he might have 
erred in his adverse conclusion under this criterion. Simply disagreeing with the Director's 
determination ( 1) without explaining how she performed in a leading or critical role through presenting 
her work and training the next generation of neurosurgeons, and (2) without documenting that she 
performed those roles for entities with a distinguished reputation, is insufficient within these 
proceedings. After reviewing the entire record, to include the arguments and evidence submitted on 
13 Policy Manual, supra. 
14 Policy Manual, supra. 
15 Evidence under this criterion must provide specifics relating to how the Petitioner's role was critical to the organization 
as a whole instead of for a sub-element within the organization. Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 
2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
8 
appeal, we adopt and affirm the Director's analysis and ultimate conclusion under this criterion.16 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion on appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 17 Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress.18 Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 19 Even 
within her response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner indicated she intends to work as a fellow, 
which is generally accepted as training prior to embarking on a career in a specialty field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
16 See Matter of P. Singh, Attorney, 26 I&N Dec. 623 (BIA 2015) ( citing Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 
1994)); see also Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) (finding that if a reviewing body decides that the facts and 
evaluative judgments prescinding from them have been adequately confronted and correctly resolved by a previous entity, 
then the appellate body is free to adopt those findings provided the appellate decision reflects individualized attention to 
the case). 
17 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
18 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
19 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17537282 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an athlete competing in weightlifting , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and affirmed that decision on a 
subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider, concluding that the record did not establish , 
as required, that the Petitioner had a qualifying one-time achievement or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, which we dismissed. The matter is 
now before us on a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. To merit reopening, a petitioner must not only 
meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. We 
cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that we dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on July 6, 2020 and mailed the decision 
to the Petitioner and former counsel. The Petitioner filed the instant motion to reopen on Februaty 8, 
2021, 21 7 days after we issued the unfavorable decision. 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date USCIS mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirus 
(COVID-l 9)pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would 
be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable decision. Based on this extended deadline, 1he 
Petitioner's motion to reopen would have been deemed timely filed if received by USCIS on or before 
September 8, 2020. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this period expires may be excused in the 
discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the 
control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). For the reasons discussed below, 
we conclude that the Petitioner filed his motion to reopen late and has not demonstrated that the 
untimely filing was reasonable and beyond his control. 
In a statement accompanying the late motion, the Petitioner states: 
I ... apologize and request for excuse for filing motion to reopen late because of 
unforeseen reasons. I could not file motion to reopen for Administrative Appeals 
Office decision on time because ofCovid-19. Due to Covid-19 many law offices were 
closed in East Coast also due to Quarantine regulations in Uzbekistan. Please accept 
the excuse for the late filing. 
As noted above, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B 
to account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Petitioner's brief 
explanation is lacking detail regarding the specific reasons for the lengthy delay in filing this motion 
and is not accompanied by any supporting documentation. This statement alone does not demonstrate 
why he reasonably required seven months to file his motion, which is well beyond the extended 
deadline provided by USCIS to provide additional flexibility during the pandemic. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing was reasonable and beyond his control 
Based on the limited explanation provided, the Petitioner has not met this burden, and we will not 
exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his motion to reopen. The motion to reopen will be 
dismissed as untimely filed, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(i). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10802044 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor a~ I College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed ten motions filed by the Petitioner 
between 2014 and 2019. Most recently, we dismissed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider 
on February 12, 2020. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The implementing 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence 
requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his tenth 
motion, a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, was based on an incorrect application 
of law or USCIS policy. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner places particular emphasis on his receipt of an •I I Award" in 2005, 
asserting that it should be considered evidence of a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 
2 04. 5 (h )(3 ), or evidence of a nationally or internationally recognized award consistent with 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). In our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing the Petitioner's tenth motion, we noted 
that we had previously explained that the record did not demonstrate that the I I Award" the 
Petitioner received enjoyed international recognition in his field. Further, we emphasized that, in his 
previous motion, the Petitioner did not address our determination that even though he claimed to have 
received an international! !Award" in 2005, the record did not demonstrate that the 
international edition of the award existed prior to 2010. 2 
The Petitioner asserts that our statement regarding the existence of the award prior to 2010 is 
"completely wrong" and that he "truly received .. ) I Award in the year 2005." The Petitioner 
has misconstrued our determination regarding this award. The record reflects his receipt of a "Prize I 12005," but we determined that the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support his 
claim that this prize was a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
1 Regarding motions to reopen or reconsider, 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(ii) states in relevant part: "The official having 
jurisdiction is the official who made the la test decision in the proceeding unless the affected party moves to a new 
jurisdiction ." The latest decision was our February 12, 2020, decision dismissing the Petitioner's tenth motion. Therefore , 
a review of any claims or assertions that the Petitioner's instant motion raises is limited in scope and is restricted to that 
decision. 
2 The Petitioner submitted a certificate issued b...=In=s=tit=u=t ,___ __ =in-'-'2=0a..ala..al.,_c"""onfirming his receipt of "the Prize._! __ ...., 
2005 in the categonJ b by practicing etitionerclairned his a ward was an 
"Intemationall I Award." The record reflects that the "International Award" is a different a ward issued 
by the same institution and does not contain evidence of its issuance prior to 2010. 
2 
field. 3 Our determination that his 20051 I award is not the same as an "International~I --~ 
Award," is based on evidence in the record indicating that the international edition of the award was 
first presented in 2010. We never made a determination that the Petitioner did not receive anl I 
award in 2005. 
The Petitioner disagrees with our determination that there is insufficient evidence to establish that his 
2005 award from thd I Institute is a qualifying nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award, or a qualifying one-time achievement. However, he has not established how we incorrectly 
applied the law or users policy by reaching that determination or by dismissing his previous motion. 
The Petitioner also contends that we made a "sad mistake" in our decision dated February 12, 2020, 
noting that we stated on page 3 that "the only appeal filed by the Petitioner was on October 7, 2013." 
He emphasizes that elsewhere we "said exactly the opposite," noting that our decision stated on page 
2 that we had issued nine motion decisions between 2014 and 2019. Based on these statements, the 
Petitioner asserts that "it looks like ... AAO ignored all the important motions between 2014 and 
2019." 
In his prior motion, the Petitioner argued that he had received incorrect correspondence from us 
inf mming him that we did not have a record of a pending appeal with our office. Moreover, he 
requested that we inform the Director that he has a pending appeal in order to maintain his pending 
status relating to his Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. m 
support of his prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted copies of our November 2018 
correspondence and the Director's October 2018 decision dismissing his motion to reconsider the 
denial of his Fmm I-485. 
In adjudicating the motion to reopen, we concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his 
newly submitted evidence (the November 2018 correspondence and the Director's October 2018 
decision) related to our prior decision denying his ninth motion filing. 4 Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not show how the correspondence and the Form I-485 decision established his eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l )(A) of Act. Accordingly, we dismissed the 
motion to reopen. 
With the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not articulated an argument that we 
misapplied the law or users policy by dismissing his prior motion to reopen. Moreover, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has filed only one appeal of the denial of his Form I-140, and that we have 
adjudicated all ten of his previous motions and did not "ignore" them as claimed in the current motion. 
Although appeals and motions are both filed on Form I-2 90B, they are separate proceedings governed 
by separate regulations and the terms are not used interchangeably. We did not err by stating that the 
Petitioner has only filed one appeal. 
3 In our decision dated February 4.2019, we acknowledged that the Director determined in his 2012 decision that the 
Petitioner's j !Award" qualified as a nationally recognized award. We explained why the record did not support 
this determination. 
4 We also observed that the record did notsupportthe Petitioner's claim thatthe November2018 correspondence from our 
office was incorrect. We noted that the only appeal filed by the Petitioner was the one filed onOctober7. 2013, which we 
dismissed on July 25,2014. In addition, we emphasized that any issues relating to his Form 1-485 should be addressed in 
a separate proceeding to the Director, as we do nothavejurisdictionoverhis adjustment of status application. 
3 
In the remainder of his brief on motion, the Petitioner refers to previously submitted evidence of his 
professional achievements and asserts that he established his eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. He requests that we "look at the hundreds of documents, 
translations, letters of authorities, evidence and facts." However, he makes no additional allegations 
that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing his 
tenth motion. The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the "nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and is othe1wise qualified for the 
requested classification, and his repetition of arguments he previously made in support of his appeal 
and prior motions, do not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
Moreover, the Petitioner's request that we conduct a de novo review of the entire record is not properly 
before us on motion and is outside the scope of this proceeding, which is limited to a review of our 
most recent prior decision. We have previously conducted a de novo review of this matter, thoroughly 
analyzed the Petitioner's evidence, and concluded that he met only two of the regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three in order to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our prior decision, dated February 12, 
2020, was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy, or that it was incorrect based on 
the evidence in the record at the time. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17718554 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we dismissed 
because it was filed untimely . Subsequently, the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we rejected as 
improperly filed, and two subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also 
dismissed . The matter is now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or policy, and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at 
the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
As noted, this matter is before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. To provide context for the 
Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we have summarized the procedural history below: 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he would 
submit a brief and additional evidence within 30 days. The record does not show, and 
the Petitioner does not claim, that he submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), 
which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the Petitioner 
addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(]). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in filing. 
2 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations make no provision for a petitioner to 
appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking both 
to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new evidence 
in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 2019 
motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we also determined that 
the Petitioner had not overcome the summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion, concluding that he had not shown proper cause 
for reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's current motion includes two supporting exhibits: (1) a copy of our February 2, 2021 
decision dismissing his third combined motion; and (2) correspondence from the U.S. Postal Service 
providing proof of delivery of his first combined motion at the USCIS designated filing location on 
January 29, 2019, a delivery date that has never been in dispute. Neither the Petitioner's brief nor 
these evidentiary exhibits introduce new facts to the record that could change the outcome of our 
previous decision. 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening 
the proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the current motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must demonstrate that our 
immediate prior decision (issued February 2, 2021, relating to the Petitioner's third combined motion), 
contained errors of fact, law, or policy that affected the outcome of the decision.1 In that decision, we 
made the following determinations: 
• The Petitioner did not meet the requirements for a motion to reopen because he did not 
introduce new facts to the record or submit new evidence that could establish his eligibility for 
the requested benefit at the time of filing; 
• The Petitioner did not establish that our July 2020 decision contained errors of fact, law, or 
policy. He alleged that we erred in summarily dismissing his appeal, but he did so by failing 
to differentiate between his September 2018 appeal filing and his January 2019 motion filing, 
which were separate proceedings that were dismissed by our office for different reasons; and 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
3 
• The Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in summarily dismissing the original appeal 
and without such a showing, we need not reach his arguments that the Director erred by 
denying his immigrant petition. 2 
In the present motion, proper consideration is limited to these issues. In his brief: the Petitioner does 
not assert that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our decision dismissing his third 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Instead, he repeatedly argues that we should have deemed 
his appeal of the Director's decision to be timely filed, and that we should have adjudicated the appeal 
on its merits, rather than dismissing it based on a procedural defect caused by the delivery courier. 
Although the Petitioner cites to caselaw in support of his claim that his appeal should have been 
deemed timely filed, we emphasize that we did not dismiss the Petitioner's September 2018 appeal 
because it was untimely. The Petitioner filed a timely appeal in September 2018. However, he did 
not, at that time, identify any specific grounds for the appeal. Instead, he made the general statement 
that the denial contained unspecified errors which the Petitioner would address in a brief: to follow 
within 30 days. The record does not contain any timely supplemental brief from the Petitioner, and 
the Petitioner does not claim to have submitted one. We summarily dismissed the appeal because it 
did not identify an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as a basis for the appeal. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The Petitioner's only untimely filing was the first combined motion to reopen and reconsider filed in 
January 2019. We previously exercised our discretion to excuse the late filing of this motion to reopen 
in our decision dated July 2020. However, we determined that the January 2019 motion, when considered 
on its merits, did not cure the deficiencies in the Petitioner's September 2018 appeal. Specifically, the 
Petitioner's January 2019 motion did not include evidence that he had submitted a brief or 
supplemental evidence in support of his appeal or otherwise establish that our summary dismissal of 
the appeal was incorrect. Therefore, that motion did not provide proper cause for reopening his appeal. 
The Petitioner's remaining arguments on motion relate to the merits of his immigrant petition and his 
belief that the Director erroneously denied that petition. As we explained in our February 2021 
decision, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's denial decision was in 
the appeal filed in September 2018 and the record reflects that he did avail himself of this opportunity 
when he filed his appeal. Absent evidence that we summarily dismissed his appeal in error, we need 
not reach the merits of his petition here. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. Rather, the 
Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope of this 
fourth motion. The Petitioner has not overcome our determination that summary dismissal was the 
2 We nevertheless briefly addressed the Petitioner's claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, observing that the record does not support his assertion that 
he enjoys the required sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
proper, and required, outcome when presented with an appeal that contained no specific allegations of 
error in fact or law. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643826 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 14, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she intends to continue working 
in her area of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider all of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
From age 16, the Petitioner performed in I I 1mder the stage names l I' and, later, i I' 
(sometimes spelled I I). Her introductory statement indicates that she "recorded and released 
several single songs and albums," but the record includes little information and evidence about those 
recordings. In 2016, she co-createdl I described as a "national musical Internet project ... about 
women's life, rights and discrimination inl I' which evolved into a stage musical,□ The 
Petitioner entered the United States in 2019 as a B-2 nonimmigrant. The Petitioner states that she intends 
to continue singing and recording, and to write songs for others, establish a production company, and 
open a children's music school. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the criteria, numbered (iv). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other six claimed criteria, but she only specifically addressed 
two of the criteria, numbered (iii) and ( vii). Because the Petitioner makes no specific allegation of error 
regarding the criteria numbered (i), (v), (viii), and (xi), we consider those issues to be abandoned.1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. At(v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
2 
We note the Petitioner's assertion that she "will submit additional argument and supporting evidence 
within 30 days," but more than eight months later, the record contains no further submission from the 
Petitioner. We therefore consider the record to be complete. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, numbered (iv) 
and (vii) (relating, respectively, to participation as a judge and to artistic display). Below, we will 
discuss the other claimed criterion that the Petitioner discusses on appeal. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from various publications. In the denial notice, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish that these articles appeared in qualifying publications. On 
appeal, the Petitioner only addresses articles that appeared in the magazine! I and thereby 
abandons previous claims regarding other publications. 
The senior editor ofl I calls the publication the "First Women's Magazine of~I ---~ 
comparable to Cosmopolitan in the United States. She asserts that cover stories in three issues featured 
the Petitioner. The Petitioner submits translated printouts of two of the cover articles, published 
respectively in the I I 2010 andl ]2012 issues of that magazine. 
In a separate letter, the editor asserts that the magazine publishes 4000 print copies per month, and that 
its website attracts more than 1.1 million unique users per year -on average, nearly 100,000 per month. 
But the Petitioner provides no objective source for these figures. The Petitioner has also submitted a 
website analysis from SimilarWeb, showing substantially lower figures. That analysis indicates that the 
website received about 21,200 "total visits" in September 2016 (the most recent month for which data 
was provided). The "total visits" figure would be higher than the count of unique visitors, because repeat 
visitors would add to the count every time they visited the site. The Petitioner does not address this 
significant disparity, and the senior editor does not cite an objective source for the much higher web trafiic 
figure claimed in the letter. We cannot afford significant evidentiary weight to the editor's assertions. 
The Petitioner does not provide specific site visit figures for other publications to allow a direct 
· son, but the imilar eb analysis shows rankings. I I's site has a "Global Rank" of 
and a of 1735. In the category of "Arts and Entertainment -Visual," the site ,------L~-----' ranking is .__ _ _, 
On appeal[ the Petitioner asserts that Aquarelle ranks among "the most popular cultural media in I as "a well-known forum for discussion and awards of well-known individuals as well as 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). See also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 
1989) (stating that passing references to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed 
abandoned). 
3 
people of significant public interest." Key evidence submitted in support of these claims, however, 
consists of the publisher's own promotional materials, or third-party commentary that relies on those 
promotional materials. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the criterion relating to published 
material. The Petitioner has documented some degree of media coverage in I I but has not 
established that this coverage meets the regulatory requirements. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining issue, concerning 
continued work in the field, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this 
issue.2 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
It is perhaps significant that, while the Petitioner claimed to satisfy seven of the ten evidentiary criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she did not claim to satisfy 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), "evidence of 
commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, 
compact disk, or video sales." A performing artist is not required to satisfy this particular criterion, 
but it is the only criterion that specifically mentions the performing arts, and the burden is on the 
Petitioner to explain how she reached the top of her field and achieved sustained acclaim without 
selling substantial numbers of recordings or concert tickets in relation to other singers nationally or 
internationally. Letters in the record indicate that she consistently ranks highly in unspecified "charts," 
but such claims have negligible weight without supporting documentary evidence. 
With respect to the Petitioner's career as a recording artist, the record indicates that recordings of 
individual songs have won popularity contests based on frequency of radio airplay, but the record 
contains little other evidence about the Petitioner's recorded work. A magazine article from 2010 
indicates that she has released three albums, but the record contains minimal information about these 
albums, and no documentation about them. The Petitioner submits a letter from a producer who states 
that he produced an album calledl I about which the record is otherwise silent 
except for a certificate from the I k which states the title as 
I 1. 
Letters in the record include other specific factual claims, such as a collaborator's assertion that the 
Petitioner won.__ __ ~ ____ ___.in 2014 and again in 2017, and a former teacher's assertion that 
she performed a sold-out concert at thel I Given the nature of 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
such claims, documentary evidence ought to be readily available, but the record contains no such 
documentation. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has achieved some degree of recognition in her field in I I but it does not consistently show that she has reached the top of that field and attained 
sustained acclaim as the regulations require. Apart from the uncorroborated claims discussed above, 
we note that the Petitioner submits printouts from her Y ouTube channel. The printouts show the 
number of views for 16 videos, all marked as being five or six years old. Eleven of those view counts 
are below 500. The Petitioner provides no basis for comparison with other singers inl I to 
show that her view counts are among the highest in her field. Average view counts for I I 
videos on another channel are somewhat higher, in the low thousands, but again these figures lack 
context in the absence of any comparative evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record indicates that 
the Petitioner achieved some success and visibility in her field, but the evidence submitted is not of a 
caliber that clears the very high threshold for eligibility under the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17774594 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tax accountant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and was among the small percentage of those at 
the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was a vice chair and international tax partner witH'--------' 
where he indicates that he has been em Joyed in several positions for more than 30 years. He earned 
an MBA from the Universit in 2017, and also holds degrees from the University._! __ ___. 
and the University ~----~ The Petitioner states that if his petition is granted, he intends to 
open his own international tax consulting firm in I I focusing on Chinese-owned 
technology companies in the area. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him and his work, his 
authorship of scholarly articles in his field, and his leading role for distinguished organizations. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to his high remuneration 
in relation to others in the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director's conclusions regarding his leading roles for the~------~andl I as 
well as his authorship of scholarly articles in the business field. However, as will be briefly discussed 
below, upon review we do not agree that the record includes published material about the Petitioner 
relating to his work, and we conclude that the evidence is sufficient to show that his remuneration is 
significantly in relation to others in his field. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to establish that they meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the evidence meet each 
of its elements, which in part require both that the published material be about them and that it relates 
2 
to their work in the field for which classification is sought. Here, the Petitioner initially submitted 
several articles in which he is quoted regarding tax and international business issues, which include 
articles published in The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and South China Morning Post. In 
responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), which stated that none of the articles 
submitted were about him, the Petitioner argued that since the nature of his work is to provide tax 
advice, "which invariably includes his views and opinions," all of these articles met the plain language 
of this criterion. Although the Director ultimately concluded that the evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion was sufficient, he did not provide an analysis of this evidence in his decision. 
As noted above, each of the articles in the record includes at least one sentence in which the Petitioner 
provides his expert opinion regarding the subject of the article. The article appearing in the Wall Street 
Journal, for example, is about the acquisition by Chinese companies of companies in other countries, 
and includes a statement from the Petitioner about such deals with which he is involved. Although he 
and his employer are identified, this material is not about him. Even articles which consist almost 
entirely of interviews of the Petitioner, which appeared in the South China Morning Post and on the 
website of the.__ ______________ _, similarly identify him and his employer, but 
do not include details about his career history or accomplishments. Instead, these materials are about 
the Chinese tax system and infrastructure investments, respectively, and thus do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Accordingly, we 
disagree with the Director's conclusion and withdraw that part of his decision. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantZv high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
Initial evidence of the Petitioner's remuneration consisted of a letter from I which stated 
that his total after-tax income from June 2017 to May 2018 was HK$ 12,224,019, and that his 
"drawing" in the period from June 2018 through February 2019 was HK$ 568,000 per month. In 
addition, to demonstrate that this remuneration was significantly high in relation to others in his field, 
the Petitioner submitted two salary surveys showing annual salaries for what he asserts are similar 
positions in his field of between HK$ l million and HK$ 2 million. However, we note that the Robert 
Walters Salary Survey 2018 shows that in Hong Kong, the annual salary for a Managing Director in 
the "Investment Banking" category, which includes the Petitioner's field of mergers and acquisitions, 
ranges between HK$ 2.4 million to HK$ 4. 7 million. In addition, the Michael Page Hong Kong Salmy 
Benchmark 20 I 9 lists the annual salary range for the position of Regional Head of Tax in the "Back 
Office -Tax" category ranges between HK$ 2million and HK$ 3 million. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence of his earnings, 
including screen shots of his monthly earnings statements between July 201 7 and June 2019. These 
show his receipt of a monthly drawing of HK$ 484,666.67 each month under one employee number, 
and an additional monthly drawing of HK$ 83,333.33 in most months under a different employee 
number. These figures confirm those regarding the monthly salary from the initial letter, with an 
annual salary of about HK$ 6.8 million. In addition, he also submitted statements showing profit­
sharing payments of approximately HK$ 2.87 million in 2018 and HK$3.1 million in 2019. For 
purposes of comparison, a report from payscale.com indicated that the average salary for a partner in 
an accounting firm in Hong Kong was HK$ 3.7 million, with 75% earning less than HK$ 5 million. 
3 
This evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's salary was high, and his total remuneration 
significantly high, in relation to other similarly situated accounting professionals in 2018 and 2019. 
As such, we disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director did not conduct a proper final merits determination 
in his decision, because he only considered evidence submitted under the criteria he found that the 
Petitioner met, and analyzed this evidence in a piecemeal fashion without considering the totality of 
the record. We agree, as USCIS policy following the Kazarian decision clearly indicates that all of 
the evidence in the record should be considered together in this second part of the analysis. 1 We will 
therefore conduct a final merits analysis in accordance with this policy. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has spent almost his entire career with a single employer in 
China, although his resume indicates that he spent a brief period working in the United States for an 
affiliated office. He lists several roles he has played forl I including international tax 
partner and national mergers and acquisitions leader, and these titles are confirmed in media reports 
in which he is quoted for his expert opinion and elsewhere in the record. Although a letter from I !confirms that he currently holds the position ofl I for the company, the record 
does not include evidence explaining his duties in this role or any of the others he has held. We agree 
with the Director that this evidence is sufficient to show that he has played a leading role, but it does 
not describe his specific performance and achievements in this role forl I Vague 
statements that he has "interacted with senior business leaders, government officials and the media 
and press" and that he is "Hong Kong's top provider of professional advice and consulting services in 
both U.S. and China tax matters" are not sufficient to demonstrate how this work has elevated his 
status within the broader field of business, or his specialization in taxation. The Act requires 
"extensive documentation" that a petitioner's achievements have been recognized in the field, and the 
record regarding the Petitioner's achievements atl I does not meet that requirement. 
Whether as an official part of his duties withl lor not, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that he has written articles on Chinese and U.S. tax issues that were published in professional 
magazines and journals. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the submitted materials, published 
between 2013 and 2018, represent only his most recent published work, and that it was the Director's 
burden to request the submission of additional articles if he felt that the record was insufficient to 
support the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. We first note that it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). In addition, 
beyond acknowledging that the Petitioner's initial submission included evidence sufficient to meet the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Director's request for evidence (RFE) also reminded him 
that eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability is not established by meeting the minimum of 
three of the evidentiary criteria alone, and explained that the response should also show that he meets 
the high standards of the requested immigrant classification. Therefore, if he felt that evidence of the 
additional articles that he authored before 2013 would help to establish his eligibility, the Petitioner 
should have submitted that evidence. 
The evidence that is in the record includes several articles that the Petitioner co-authored with 
colleagues froml I published in magazines and journals including The Bulletin, 
Bloomberg BNA Tax Planning International Review, China Tax Intelligence and Tax Notes 
International. In his decision, the Director stated that some of these articles did not meet the relevant 
criterion, in particular those published in The Bulletin, and that the record lacked evidence that others 
in the field had cited to these articles. As pointed out on appeal, the Petitioner is not a researcher, and 
does not work in a field where authors of such material typically cite to each other's written works. 
However, the Petitioner's assertion that authorship of scholarly articles in his field is rare is not 
supported by evidence in the record, nor does he suggest an alternative means for measuring the extent 
to which the evidence of his published work supports his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
Further, the record does not include evidence about the publications in which these articles were 
published beyond the copies of the journal covers and articles. For instance, the covers of the editions 
of The Bulletin indicate that it is published and/or distributed by the 'l I 
.__ ________ _., but no information is provided regarding the circulation or readership of this 
magazine, or its prestige within the Chinese or international taxation community. Another article was 
published in a newsletter of the I I' which according to the website at the address printed on 
the cover is the '--------------------~ but the record does not include 
information about whether this newsletter would have influence or reach beyond the members of this 
organization. While the titles of some of the other publications suggest that they may have had a 
broader readership, and thus provided a wider platform for distribution of the Petitioner's views and 
expertise, again the record lacks such evidence. Thus, although the authorship of these articles shows 
the Petitioner's expertise in the area of international taxation, as well as a certain level of 
acknowledgment of that expertise by the editors and publishers of the journals in which they were 
published, it does not set him apart from his co-authors and others who are published in these and 
other media. Again, the Act requires extensive documentation of recognition in a petitioner's field, 
and the evidence of the Petitioner's published work does not rise to that level. 
In addition to this evidence of materials authored by the Petitioner, the record also includes the 
previously discussed evidence of published materials which include quotations from him on issues of 
taxation, investment and mergers and acquisition. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the interview 
of him on twd !segments and his contributions to articles in The New York Times, Wall Street 
Journal and South China Morning Post, among others, "automatically places him in an elite category 
at the top of his field in Hong Kong." We acknowledge that the appearance of his expert opinions, in 
most cases brief snippets among those of others, in well-known media such as these shows that his 
expertise in his field is acknowledged and sought after. However, even if this statement was proven 
5 
to be correct, this does not accurately reflect the requirements for eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability, as placement at the very top of the field of endeavor is not limited by geography. 
Although the single articles from The New York Times and Wall Street Journal, and the two interviews 
in segments aired o~ I suggest that the Petitioner's expertise has been recognized beyond the 
borders of Hong Kong and even China, much of the remainder of the evidence consists of articles 
published in primarily locally focused media, such as the South China Morning Post, or in media about 
which little or no information exists in the record, such as two articles in a magazine identified in its 
header as A Plus. The totality of this evidence does not help to show that the Petitioner has received 
acclaim for his expertise at the national or international level over a sustained period. 
Likewise, the evidence of the Petitioner's salary and total remuneration in 2018 and 2019, together 
with the salary surveys and other evidence, demonstrates that in those years he was compensated at a 
rate that is significantly higher than average, but does not show that he has consistently been 
compensated at a rate which would place him amongst those at the top of his field. In addition, the 
evidence showing that the Petitioner was named as one of several tax experts in Hong Kong in 
International Tax Review's .__ _______ ___, in 2009 does not set him apart from others so 
named, or from those taxation experts who work in other parts of the world. 
Other than his work for, and associated with 
of his long-time service with the 
several roles most recent! as it the Petitioner also submitted evidence 
m 
A letter from .__ __ ___, 
.__ ________________ ~of the organization, describes the Petitioner's work as 
a board member for more than twenty years, including his involvement with it~ I main source 
of revenue, and his service on several committees including the finance and audit committee. This 
evidence shows that he has served as an effective leader for this well-know~ I organization, 
but the Petitioner does not suggest or establish that this work has brought him acclaim in the 
international tax community, or that any recognition for this work extends beyond thq I 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, after analysis 
of the totality of the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16169597 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner writes fiction and non-fiction under a variant of his legal name.1 In addition to nonfiction 
essays b)og posts and short stories the Petitioner bis written two novels, one of~which,lwith the title I _ resulted in his prosecution i under public 
decency laws. His conviction and imprisonment in 2015 drew si nificant international attention. The 
Petitioner also worked as an editor at the ma azme The Petitioner is a fellow at the I I at the University of~------~ 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), pertaining to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
published material about the individual in professional or major media; and participation as a judge of 
the work of others. The Petitioner claims to satisfy a fourth criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
relating original contributions of major significance, but we need not reach a conclusion on this claim 
in order to proceed to the final merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, the Petitioner must demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish the necessary sustained acclaim. The 
Director cited two factors in support of this conclusion. Firstly, regarding the explicit nature of some 
1 Many record materials show the name I t but there is no indication that the Petitioner uses this name on legal 
identification documents. 
2 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
of the Petitioner's writings, the Director stated that "such material is common in the United States and 
does not demonstrate that the petitioner is one of that small percentage who has risen to the top of the 
field." The Petitioner, however, had not claimed that his choice of subject matter or his use of explicit 
language placed him at the top of the field. The above observation, therefore, is not a valid basis for 
denying the petition. 
Secondly, the Director concluded that letters written in support of the petition "describe the petitioner's 
work in terms of social and political activism, which is not a field of endeavor under this visa 
classification." This is, at best, an incomplete summary of the submitted letters, many of which discuss 
the literary and artistic merit of the Petitioner's fiction, as well as the quality and impact of his journalism. 
For the reasons explained above, the Director's discussion of these issues does not suffice as a final merits 
determination. We will therefore withdraw the denial decision based on that analysis, and remand the 
matter for a new decision, taking the issues below into account. 
The record shows that the Petitioner rose to international prominence when his imprisonment made him 
a potent symbol for advocates of freedom of speech and of the press. The key issue is whether the 
Petitioner has earned acclaim as an extraordinary writer, separate from the attention that attended his 
prosecution. Publicity for one's circumstances is not the same as acclaim for one's achievements. 
The Director was correct in observing that the petition relies heavily on letters newly writtr spectfically 
to support the petition. Some of the letters suggest that the Petitioner was well-known in before 
his prosecution, which could rise to the level of national acclaim and thereby qualify him for the 
classification he seeks. But such a conclusion would require direct, contemporaneous evidence, rather 
than new letters claiming that the Petitioner has been well-known for years. 
The value of such letters lies in giving perspective and context to the other evidence in the record; they 
cannot fully take the place of that evidence. The letters include several claims of fact for which objective, 
primary evidence ought to exist. These claims may be true, but they have minimal weight without 
corroborating evidence. 
For instance, an associate professor a~ !University who translated I I into English asserts 
that he has "been following [the Petitioner's] work for more than ten years," and has used that work in 
"numerous peer-reviewed articles, conference papers, book chapters, and interviews" during that time. 
But he does not identify or submit these works. If the Petitioner's work was the subject of scholarly 
commentary before 2015, then those materials ought to be available for submission and consideration. 
Likewise! I was not the Petitioner's first novel. The record indicates he published! I in 
2007. Contemporary evidence such as reviews and comparative sales figures could help to establish 
recognition as a novelist, outside of the context of the controversy surrounding! I 
Evidence of the Petitioner's pre-2015 career as a journalist could also shed valuable light on the 
Petitioner's reputation and recognition. 
3 
The Director did not issue a request for evidence to give the Petitioner an opportunity to fill this critical 
gap in the record. Instead, the Director issued a notice of intent to deny the petition, which serves a 
different function (to notify a petitioner of potentially disqualifying information). 
Therefore, we will remand the matter so that the Director may ( 1) issue a request for information to allow 
the Petitioner an opportunity to produce documentary evidence that predates his prosecution, thereby 
demonstrating that he did not rise to public attention only because his work was deemed to run afoul of I llaws; and (2) render a new final merits determination that more fully considers the totality of 
the record. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The final merits determination in the original decision was deficient in that it focused on peripheral 
issues. Also, several letters in the record include claims which, if true, may warrant approval of the 
petition, but the Director did not provide the Petitioner with an adequate opportunity to supplement 
the record with evidence to corroborate those claims. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should request any additional evidence deemed warranted 
and allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence within a reasonable period of time. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17756172 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior quality assurance associate working in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish, 
as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as a Quality Assurance Associate III with a 
,__ _____ _. contract development and manufacturing comp n m he biopharmaceutical 
industry. The Petitioner received a bachelor of pharmacy degree fro College of Pharmacy 
in 2002 and,>J..l,l..l.!.l.2l,<.l.l..!J.~.u:.....l..l..!.1.1..1..L1~!o<l.L""" post-graduate program i .__ ____ ____.industry regulatory 
affairs at the India, and a master of business administration at the University 
of.__ _______ _. She has approximately 15 years of professional expenence m the 
pharmaceutical industry, including eight years wittj I 
in India. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could meet four of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her field 
and her performance in leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
We will not disturb the Director's conclusions with respect to these two criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director did properly evaluate the evidence she submitted in support of her 
claim that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to 
others in her field. We will address this criterion below. 
2 
The Petitioner's arguments on appeal are limited to the issue of whether the previously submitted 
evidence was sufficient to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). She states in the 
"Conclusion" section of her appellate brief that she has made original scientific contributions of major 
significance in accordance with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, she does not 
otherwise raise this issue or challenge the Director's reasons for concluding that she did not satisfy 
this criterion; she merely mentions it in passing. Issues or claims that are not raised with specificity on 
appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009 See 
Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. 
City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references to issues 
are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has commanded a 
high salary, or significantly high total remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field 
working in similar positions and geographic locations. 1 
The Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on her earnings as a senior scientist for!._ __ _. 
.__ _______________ __, in India. She provided documentation of her earnings, in 
Indian rupees (INR), during the period from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013. 
In a cover letter accompanying her initial evidence, the Petitioner stated that her "total remuneration" 
in 2012 was INR 964,212. The Petitioner provided a copy of her Form ITR-1, Indian Income Tax 
Return for the 2013-14 assessment year. This form indicates at line 1 that her "Income from 
Salary/Pension" was INR 620,926, and identifies her employer as '----------~ 
The Petitioner also submitted a document identified as a "Tax Planner for the Month of February 
2013" summarizing her remuneration from.__ _________ _. The document provides a 
breakdown of her basic pay and other payments made by her employer between April 2012 and March 
2013. It reflects that she received monthly "basic pay" of INR 29,992 and other recurring monthly 
payments that amounted to INR 41,025 (including a house rent allowance, a superannuation 
allowance, a conveyance allowance and rent paid). In addition, the "Tax Planner" has a gross income 
calculation that includes the items noted above, plus "gratuity receipts," "taxable LTA," leave salary, 
a performance bonus, award(s) and "medical domestic rec'd." The document lists a "gross income 
before exemption" figure of INR 873,194, 2 a list of exemptions, and a "rounded gross total income" 
figure of INR 620,926. 
1 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (noting that it is the petitioner's burden 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
2 This figure is the sum of all the items listed above, except for the "rent paid" figure, which according to this document is 
"data only for information." 
3 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided two additional Indian 
tax forms (Form No. 12BA and Form No. 16), which both indicate the amount paid to her byl I I I for the 2013-14 assessment year as INR 873,194. 
The Petitioner provided comparative salary data from several sources in support of her claim that she 
commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to others in her field in 2012. 
This evidence included a screenshot from Payscale.com with 2018 country-wide salaries for the 
occupation of"Analytical Methods Development Scientist" in India. This evidence indicates a median 
salary ofINR 576,112, an average salary ofINR 674,074, and a 90th percentile salary ofINR 930,000. 
The information is based on data reported by 26 individuals in India. 
The Petitioner also submitted February 2020 data from Glassdoor.com for the position of "Analytical 
Chemist" in India. This document indicates that the average base pay for this occupation is INR 
574,367. Finally, the Petitioner submitted information from Indeed.com for the occupations of Senior 
Analytical Chemist and Analytical Chemist which she stated is an "equivalent position to an analytical 
scientist." This evidence indicates an average monthly salary of INR 17,628 per month for "Senior 
Analytical Chemist" with a range between INR 8,000 and 42,000. For the position of "Analytical 
Chemist," Indeed.com indicates an average salary of INR 20,663, with salaries ranging from INR 
8,000 to 51,000. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again emphasizes that her "total remuneration" for her role as a Senior 
Scientist atl I in 2012 was INR 964,212. She asserts that "[i]n Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (1994), the court found that the beneficiary, an Albanian physician, who earned 
'twice the average salary of other Albanian doctors' in Albania to qualify as sufficient evidence to 
meet this criterion." The Petitioner maintains that the AAO has affirmed the standard upheld in 
Buletini in our unpublished decisions. 3 She states that the submitted salary surveys establish that her 
earnings in 2012 were approximately double the earnings of persons in her field in India, even when 
compared to salaries reported in 2018-2020. 
After reviewing all the submitted evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
she satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner maintains that her "total 
remuneration" was INR 964,212 in 2012, but this figure does not appear on the Petitioner's Indian tax 
documentation or employer-issued tax planning document. The figure of INR 873,194 reported on 
the Petitioner's Indian Form No. 16, includes non-salary remuneration, such as rent and conveyance 
allowances and medical coverage payments. As noted, this figure also includes "gratuity receipts," a 
"superannuation allowance," and a "special allowance." The Petitioner's "basic pay" during the tax 
year in question was INR 29,992 which equates to an annual base salary of approximately INR 
360,000.4 
3 For example, she provides a copy of an unpublished decision issued in 2017, in which we noted that we did not contest 
the Buletini court's finding that USCTS "must intend that the salary of the [petitioner] be judged in relation to others who 
are in comparable circumstances." 
4 The record reflects that the Petitioner last received her monthly "basic pay" from! lin December 
2012 and indicates that she relocated to the United States in January 2013. After she left the company, in February 2013. 
it appears that she was paid for leave (INR 101,973) and received a "gratuity receipts" payment ofINR 149,962. 
4 
While it appears that other payments beyond her "basic pay" were included in the INR 620,926 figure 
reported on the Petitioner's tax return for the 2013-14 year, it is unclear whether, or to what extent, 
the comparative salary surveys she provided from Glassdoor, Payscale and Indeed included non­
salary income. None of these sources indicates that the figures reported reflect "total remuneration" 
paid to employees. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her salary is high or 
that her total "remuneration" is significantly high in relation to others. Demonstrating that her total 
remuneration is high compared to the average base salaries in the field does not suffice. 
The information from Payscale indicates an "average salary" of INR 674,074 for an "analytical 
methods development scientist" as of 2018. The Petitioner's basic salary for the 2012-13 year was 
lower than this figure, and no comparative data from 2012 has been provided. The income figure 
reported on her Indian tax return was closer to this 2018 "average salary," but again, we cannot 
determine what types of employer payments, if any, beyond base salary were included in Payscale's 
average figure. The Petitioner's claim that she earned nearly double the average salary data reported 
by Payscale is not adequately supported by the record. 
We have also reviewed the average monthly salary information for the occupations of "analytical 
chemist" and "sr. analytical chemist" provided by Indeed.com. Assuming that the figures provided 
by Indeed are base salary figures, we acknowledge that the Petitioner's basic monthly salary ofINR 
29,992 was higher than the average figures reported for an analytical chemist (INR 20,663) and for a 
senior analytical chemist (INR 17,628). However, the same survey reports a high salary of INR 51,000 
for the analytical chemist position, which is significantly higher than the Petitioner's documented base 
salary. There is insufficient evidence to establish that her salary was high, or that her total 
remuneration was significantly high, when compared to others employed as senior scientists during 
the relevant period. An above-average salary does not necessarily equate to a "high salary" for 
purposes of satisfying this criterion. 
Finally, the information the Petitioner provided from Glassdoor indicates that "average base pay" for 
an analytical chemist in India (as of 2020) is INR 574,367 and the publisher indicates that it did not 
have sufficient information to provide a salary range that includes high salaries for this occupation. 
The publisher does not state that its "average base pay" figure includes non-salary compensation. The 
Petitioner's base pay in 2012 was INR 360,000, which is lower than the figure reported by Glassdoor. 
The information provided from this source does not allow us to compare the Petitioner's 2012 base 
pay or total remuneration to that of others working in her occupation in India during the same time 
period. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she has 
commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of 
her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18141694 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a legal consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification 
through evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or that she meets at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as an attorney and legal consultant for several years in her native~I --~ 
and holds a Ph.D. in public and constitutional law from the University I I At the time of filing 
she was pursuing a degree in business administration at I I Community College in Michigan. 
She initially indicated that she wished to pursue an academic research position in the United States, 
but in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) submitted a letter from a private law firm 
expressing interest in employing her as an attorney advisor. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her membership in associations in her field and her 
authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to original contributions of major significance to her field. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's decision in part, but withdraw his conclusion 
regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations in her field. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
As stated in the Director's RFE, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show membership in 
an association, that that association is in their field of expertise, that it requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, and that those achievements are judged to be outstanding by recognized 
2 
experts. Here, the Petitioner asserts that her membership in the International Society of Public Law, 
or ICON-S, qualifies under this criterion.1 
Regarding her membership in this association, the Petitioner submitted evidence that she presented 
papers at ICON-S conferences in 2014 and 2015, and also attended a 2016 conference. Although this 
is not direct evidence of her membership, we acknowledge that, in general, those who present papers 
at professional and academic conferences are members of the association holding the conference. 
Turning to the requirement of outstanding achievements for members element, the Petitioner referred 
to the association's website and provided a list of short biographies of TCON-S members who had 
been voted onto the association's council, asserting that these individuals are responsible for judging 
memberships to ICON-S. However, although the website referred to in her RFE response2 does list 
the names and positions of these individuals, and all appear to be experts in the field of law, the 
webpage makes no mention of their involvement in the judging of membership applications. In 
addition, the record does not include evidence of what the association's membership requirements are, 
despite the Director's explicit request in his RFE. 3 As the Petitioner has not established that the 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by national or international 
experts in their fields, we disagree with the Director and withdraw his finding that she meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance.4 Here, the Petitioner asserts that her Ph.D. thesis is an original contribution 
to the field of law, and that several reference letters in the record show its major significance to that 
field. 
The first such letter was written b~ lwho indicates that he is an advisor to the Supreme 
Court ofl I and has known the Petitioner since 2004 as a law school classmate. 5 He states that 
he has read the Petitioner's thesis, and describes it as "a very distinguished study" which "provides 
many thoughtful insides [sic] in the I I comparative constitutional law." However, he does not 
elaborate on which insights in the thesis he feels are valuable, nor does he state that they have been of 
any significance to the field of law. 
1 While the Petitioner also submitted evidence of her membership in other associations, she explained in her response to 
the Director's RFE that this evidence "is only to demonstrate that even after coming to the U.S., I have continued to study 
and be recognized as an excellent student and leader in the U.S." We will therefore not consider this evidence in evaluating 
her qualification under this criterion. 
2 https://www.icon-society.org/govemance/council-elections/, accessed on July 15, 2021. 
3 A different page on the association's website explains its membership requirements, which consist of filling out an 
electronic form and paying an annual membership fee. https://www.icon-society.org/join/, accessed on July 15, 2021. 
4 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
5 All reference letters in the record have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Another reference letter was written by~-------- who teaches at thel I School 
for Magistrates and is a former Deputy Minister of Justice. He writes that he mentored the Petitioner 
in her legal studies, and was part of her dissertation committee. In addition to noting that she scored 
97 out 100 points for her dissertation, he states that she has "an original style of writing and has 
impressed me with her strong legal logic."6 I I further writes that the Petitioner is 
"trustworthy, honest, and good moral," and notes her participation in a conference in New York. But 
he does not indicate that her thesis has contributed to the field of law by having an influence or impact 
on the work of others, or that it is otherwise of major significance. 
~----------------' Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the.__ _______ --! 
indicates in her letter that she "has had the chance to read some of [the Petitioner's] papers and her 
research skills are admirable." She goes on to write that she considers the conclusions in the 
Petitioner's thesis to be "unique and interesting," and that she has "taken [them] into consideration for 
my own research." However) ldoes not explain which of the Petitioner's conclusions are 
unique and interesting or in what way they are unique and interesting. In addition, she does not 
describe her own research, or how she has applied the Petitioner's work to expand upon that research. 
Other letters in the record are complimentary of the Petitioner's intellectual capabilities, 
professionalism, and personal characteristics, and generally recommend her as a talented lawyer. Two 
of the letters praise her job performance with two private law firms, and another indicates that she was 
a successful student during her legal studies. None of them provide a detailed description of her Ph.D. 
thesis, its contribution to the field of law, or how it has been of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes several arguments to support her assertion that the Director did not 
give sufficient weight to the reference letters. In particular, she challenges his citation to Matter of 
Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988), asserting that the Director improperly 
referenced this decision and failed to consider this expert testimony. In addition, she urges us to 
consider the credentials of the letter writers, noting that they are top experts in the field of law. 
We have thoroughly reviewed these letters, and all of the evidence in the record, per our de nova 
review. While we do not question the credibility or qualifications of the writers, the letters they have 
written do not provide more than a brief and shallow description of the Petitioner's work, despite the 
fact that two of the writers identify themselves as members of her dissertation committee. Reference 
letters that do not specifically identify contributions or provide specific examples of how those 
contributions influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 
2009) affd in part 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). In 2010, the Kazarian court reiterated that the 
AAO's conclusion that the "letters from physics professors attesting to [the petitioner's] contributions 
in the field" were insufficient was "consistent with the relevant regulatory language." 596 F.3d at 
1122. Here, references to "conclusions" and "insights" without further detail are not sufficient to 
describe the nature of the contribution the thesis has made to the field. 
6 On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not consider the full text of this letter, and provides a quotation that 
she asserts was written byl I However, the letter in the record does not include the majority of that quoted 
language, nor does it appear in any of the other reference letters. 
4 
In addition, neither the reference letters or other evidence in the record demonstrates that her Ph.D. 
thesis has been impacted or influenced others in the field of law such that it is of major significance. 
While the Petitioner refers to Kazarian in suggesting that the Director imposed novel requirements 
when noting the lack of evidence of citations to the Petitioner's thesis and her other published work, 
the referenced language concerns the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Citations to a petitioner's 
published work, or other evidence that scholarly presentations or articles have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others in the field, are among the evidence that may be probative 
of the significance of contributions to a field of endeavor under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 As the record 
does not include such evidence, or other evidence pertaining to the significance of the Petitioner's 
contribution, we agree with the Director and find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes copies of articles authored by the Petitioner which have been published in peer­
reviewed journals or presented at professional conferences. We therefore agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17497613 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist in the field of molecular virology, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist in the field of mo""le;....;;c-"u=la=r_v....;;i;;;...ro;;..cl=o=gy.;...;_ . ...c;.A=t'-t=h=e-'t=im~e....;;o...c;.f_;;;;f=1l=in=g=,...;c;h;;.ce_w'-'-=asc...., 
employed as a postdoctoral research associate for the I I I la~~------~~ inl IT~enn-es-s-ee-. ----------~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserts that he can satisfy four of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Memberships in organizations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, related to judging the 
work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. We agree. The Petitioner submitted evidence that 
he is a member of the editorial board of Journal of Life Sciences and has served as a peer reviewer for 
other scientific journals in his field and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
In addition, the record reflects that he has authored articles published in professional publications 
included the Journal of Virology, Frontiers in Microbiology, and Journal of Biological Chemistry, 
thus satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in concluding that he did not satisfy the 
membership criterion or establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in his 
field. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that he has satisfied one additional 
criterion. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner maintains 
that the Director overlooked or excluded much of the evidence he submitted in support of this 
criterion 1 and states that, when viewed collectively, the record establishes that he has more likely than 
not made significant scientific contributions based on his original research. We find the Petitioner's 
claims ersuasive with respect to his research regarding the role of thel I 
which includes his 2019 article, I I 
published in Journal of Virology. 
The Petitioner provided two letters from University! I professor! I a 
permanent member of th .__ ___________________ __. ._ ____ _.l who 
served as the scientific editor for the Petitioner's first-authored publication in Journal of Virology, 
writes: 
~----~I is one of the most attractive and sought-after therapeutic targets for the 
development of next generatio dru s. I can confirm that [the Petitioner's] 
crucial work, using the investigationa has provided compelling 
biochemical evidence for a regulatory role o .__ _________ ___, His finding 
represents a significant advance in the ongoing efforts to discover and understand novel 
roles of I I infection and in the development of effectivd I inhibitors. 
~----_.I also emphasizes that the fact that the article was selected to be featured on the Journal 
of Virology's cover further validates it "high value and influence." Finally, he states, that, based on 
his own long-standing relationship with thg lhe can affirm that "the fact that [the Petitioner's] 
work was the basis of a successful I I grant funding, which is the most competitive and 
prestigious grant in the biomedical field, is clear proof that his research findings were evaluated and 
judged by the experts to be of significance and a major development in the field." 
I 7 a professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology atl • I 
Universiti ___ ~f°further explains that the Petitioner's findings "helped solve a longstanding and 
open-ended debate that had been marked by contradictory results ... on thel I function of 
~------~in virus replication." .... L ____ ___,J explained that he cited to the Petitioner's 
Journal of Virology article twice in his own 2019 Nature Microbiology paper, noting that he 
highlighted the Petitioner's work as a "vital and major development." He further states: 
The lack of understanding of the role o~ • I in these stei;,s of I I represents 
one of the last substantial knowledge gaps regarding thel hfecycle. [The 
Petitioner's] timely publication last year in the Journal of Virology provided a major 
breakthrough and clarity in the field. His ingenious work, b roviding a direct 
biochemical evidence tha can be blocked by an dru 
that specifically target established a functional role for ~--------~ 
1 The Director determined that "most of the letters were written by experts who have employed, instructed, or collaborated 
with you," and therefore could not show the recognition of the Petitioner's work outside his "circle of colleagues." 
However, as emphasized by the Petitioner on appeal, almost all the submitted letters were from experts in the field who 
have not employed or collaborated with the Petitioner. 
3 
replication. . .. [The Petitioner] set forth the few pror that I I !is critical 
for I len after entering the This finding has fundamentally 
advanced the field. 
I !Director of I jwith biopharmaceutical company! I I I also addresses the Petitioner's Journal o} Virology publication, noting that it "both 
fundamentally advanced basic research on! I and opened exciting new prospects for a second 
generation ofl !drugs that target these activities." He emphasizes that the Petitioner's 
work "yielded the first compelling evidence for a direct link betwee~ I" He 
describes the significance of the Petitioner's findings in technical detail and states that "the 
information revealed through [the Petitioner's] research on! I is very valuable to 
researchers in the field who strive to develop! I drugs." 
I indicates that he cited to the Petitioner's work in his own 2019 Nature Medicine article in 
.__w_h-ic_h_h_.is team reported on the discovery of anl ldrug that bind an inhibits the function of I I He further explains that "to rtend rre Petitioner's] work O to our newly disclosed I I ... my research team at and his research team at ____ l~ecuted a 
Material Trnsfer Arreement" which allows the Petitioner to investigate the effects ofl__J's newly 
discovered od I The Petitioner has provided a copy of the material transfer 
agreement. 
Based on this and other evidence related to this research, the Petitioner has ;rovided sufficient detail 
to establish the nature and significance of his contributions tol I research projects at I I Therefore, we conclude that he has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and 
established that he meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying three of 
the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner completed his bachelor's degree in biochemistry ad .... ___ ___. 
University in India in 1992 and his master of science in biochemsist a~ luniversity in 1995. 
He was subsequently employed as a research fellow at the - II I I inl I from 1996 to 1999, where he studied....._ _________ ___,_ 
2 See also 6 users Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual (stating that users officers should 
then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has 
established , by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification) . 
4 
~--~I The Petitioner received his doctorate degree in molecular virology fro~ I University 
in 2006. During his studies at I I he worked as a graduate research assistant in the De artment 
of Botany and Plant Pathology from 2000 to 2006. Since 2007,,J..ll,<.....u.u.>l....l.!.!o.<.lo..l..L.....U.LMJJ.~~.1.1....---....a, 
research, initially as a postdoctoral research visiting fellow in the.__ ___________ ~ _ __. 
.__-~-----~--' from 2007 to 2012. He later served as a special research volunteer in this 
program in 2013 and has been with the I I at~--------~since 2015, initially as 
a research assistant, and since 201 7, as a postdoctoral research associate. In 2018, the Petitioner was 
recognized as the "Postdoctoral Fellow of the Year" atl ~ based on his work 
atl I 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has judged the work of others within his field, authored scholarly 
articles, and made scientific contributions through his research, and we have considered other evidence 
in the record including evidence of his membership in a professional association and his presentations 
at conferences and meetings in his field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements to date reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990) or place him among that small percentage ofresearchers 
at the very top of his field. 
Regarding his service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience 
is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. Participation in the peer review 
process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international 
acclaim at the very top of their field. The Petitioner highlights~----------' of Journal 
of L[fe Sciences (JoLS) (previously published as Journal of Postdoctoral Research), which he had held 
since October 2017. 3 JoLS is described as "a Postdoc community initiative," which is "entirely run by 
Post-Doctoral research scientists from universities and research institutes across the world." According 
to the journal's website, its I I staff includes "senior and seasoned post-doctoral scientists with 
excellent publication and research experience." The journal emphasizes that it offers "rich learning 
opportunities to fresh Post-doctoral trainees," providing a forum for them "to participate and train in 
scientific writing, peer-reviewing, editing and building a compelling scientific resume." 
The Petitioner provided a letter from~--------------~ of JoLS, who confirms 
that the journal's .__ ____ ___."consists of accomplished postdoctoral scientists from various 
universities and research institutions." He states that the Petitioner was selected for his position as an I I through a "stringent selection rrocess" and because of his "international reputation 
as a leader in the area of Molecular Virology."4 _ I does not farther address the selection 
process or the specific criteria considered in the decision to select a researcher as anl I board 
~peal, the Petitioner provides evidence that he is currently.__ _______ _. ofJoLS and one of 130 ~ 
L___J' who form the Journal Topics Board for Vaccines, an open-access journal focused on laboratory and clinical 
vaccine research. The Petitioner did not hold these positions at the time of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
a[iudication 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(6)(1 ). 
4 I also discusses the Petitioner's role as a~ ______ _,for Society of Life Sciences, which is 
described as "outreach arm" of Journal of Life Sciences which showcases "the accomplishments and life stories of the 
stakeholders in the scientific research enterprise." The record does not reflect that the Petitioner's role with Society of 
Life involves peer review activities or other activities that involve judging the work of others in his field. 
5 
member, nor does the record contain evidence showing, for example, that other postdoctoral 
researchers who serve as JoLS1 I enjoy sustained acclaim at the top of their respective 
fields. 
The evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's editorial role for JoLS demonstrates he has been 
recognized by the journal as an accomplished postdoctoral researcher in his field. As noted, JoLS 
specifically seeks to highlight the research work of postdoctoral trainees and limits selection to its I I to "senior and seasoned post-doctoral scientists" thereby excluding much of the field 
in its selection process for these positions. The evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
role reflects or resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim or that it ~-----~ 
places him among the small percentage of scientists at the very top of his field, which includes all 
research scientists and not only postdoctoral researchers. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner has served as an ad hoc peer reviewer for JoLS and six other 
journals, including PLoS One, The Open AIDS Journal, and Infection and Drug Resistance. The 
Petitioner did not provide information from these journals reflecting their requirements or selection 
criteria for peer reviewers and therefore we cannot evaluate his judging activities in terms of those 
requirements. None of the invitation emails in the record indicate or imply that peer review for these 
specific journals is a privilege reserved for top experts, rather than a responsibility shared by individuals 
with relevant subject matter knowledge. The evidence regarding the Petitioner's service as a peer 
reviewer for journals verifies his expertise as researcher in the field of molecular virology but does 
not demonstrate that his service in this role is indicative of his widespread acclaim or elevated standing 
within his field. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I who serves as 
I latl IUniversity'sl !Medical I'-n-st-it-ut-e'.l====::;-ls-ta-t-es_, 
that "peer review is essential for validation and evaluation of research" and that "journal editors select 
and invite experts in the specific research area for this vital task." However, having subject matter 
expertise in a given field is a lower threshold than enjoying standing among the small 8ercentage at 
the very top of that field. With respect to the Petitioner's specific peer review experience,L I 
notes that his "selection to serve as a reviewer for several journals farther indicates that he is a notable 
researcher in the field," but he does not assert that the Petitioner's peer review activities have 
contributed to or reflect his sustained national or international acclaim among researchers in molecular 
virology. 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that he served as a judge for the 2012 Fellows Award for 
ponsored by the ._I _____ ___,..----,, _____________________ T_h_e_r_e_c_o~rd reflects that Petitioner won a 201 .... 11 __ __. 
award during his postdoctoral fellowship a Thd ~rds recognize "outstanding scientific 
research performed by intramural postdoctoral fellows" atLJ Fellows submit an abstract of their 
research, which is peer reviewed in a blind study section competition, and authors who score in the 
top 25% are recognized asl lwinners, receive a $1500 travel stipend to present their abstract at a 
scientific meeting, and serve as judges the following year. While the Petitioner's receipt of the award 
and resulting appointment to judge the I lompetition are notable professional achievements, the 
record does not establish that either the 2011 award or the associated judging opportunity for the 2012 
competition earned him national or international recognition. 
6 
Overall, we note that, without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that his judging experience to date places him among that small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how 
the number of reviews he conducted or the position he held on an editorial board compares to the 
judging activities of researchers at the top of the field or demonstrate that he has garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his peer review work. 
With respect to his authorship of scholarly articles, the Petitioner provided evidence that he published 
1 7 articles between 2006 and 2020, as well as a book chapter, published in 1999. 5 However, the 
Petitioner's publication of his research does not automatically place him at the top of the field and he 
has not provided evidence that directly compares his research output to that of others in his field. We 
acknowledge that some of the expert opinion letters address the Petitioner's publications among his 
other achievements. For example, I I of the University ofl I I I states that the Petitioner "has maintained a productive career as a scientific researcher in the 
United States," stating that this is evidenced by his publications in peer-reviewed journals and research 
presentations at conferences in the field. I I likewise praises the Petitioner's "considerable 
productivity" noting that he is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area of retrovirology," 
whose work is regularly "published in reputed journals" and selected for conference presentations. 
Although the record reflects that the Petitioner has 13 years of post-doctoral experience in the5? 
research field, we note that 14 of his 18 publications had been published since he joined I in 
2015, and that 12 of those were published since 2017. This evidence supports the expert opinions that 
he has become a productive researcher in the field, especially in recent years, but the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence that his publications have garnered him sustained national or international 
acclaim or place him among the small percentage of scientists at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
The Petitioner also emphasized that he published his work in "the leading forums in his field." He 
provided the journal impact factor for each journal that has published his work and noted that "many 
peer-reviewed journals are ranked in their field according to these impact factors." However, he did 
not provide their respective rankings. Nevertheless, we note that publication in a highly ranked journal 
in-and-of-itself does not indicate a petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. Moreover, 
a publication's impact factor simply reflects the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, 
however, show the influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has 
had an impact within the field. As discussed above, several of the expert opinion letters call particular 
attention to the Petitioner's publication in Journal of Virology and note the significance of having his 
2019 article featured as I I While we recognize that this publication is noteworthy, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that his overall publication record is tantamount to a career of acclaimed 
5 The Petitioner indicated that he had three additional manuscripts undergoing preparation or peer review when the petition 
was filed in July 2020. As noted. the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
work or that it demonstrates the required sustained national or international acclaim for this 
classification. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. 
Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d 
at 1122. At the time of filing, the Petitioner offered evidence from Google Scholar indicating that his 
articles had been cited 261 times, with his top three articles receiving approximately 123, 31, and 28 
citations, respectively. 6 While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that 
field has noticed his work, he did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate 
a level of interest in his field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
A letter froml I oti I University I I discusses four of the 
Petitioner' sl Ire search studies and states that "the citation record of [ the Petitioner's] 
impactful articles is quite high in his area of expertise and are commensurate with the citation record 
of other articles of major significance in the field published during the corresponding time period." 
However, the studies referenced b~ lhad accumulated between 0 and 11 citations, respectively, 
at the time he wrote his letter and no supporting evidence was submitted to establish that these numbers 
are "quite high." In addition,! I notes that one of the review articles co-authorel by thel 
Petitioner "remains one of the most frequently cited publication on the late events of 
I I' apparently in reference to the Petitioner's 2011 Physiology review article, which had 123 
citations at the time of filing. The Petitioner did not submit any other evidence in support of his claim 
that some of his individual articles have been highly cited or establish how such citations are indicative 
of or resulted in his national or international acclaim or recognition. Nor does he compare his 
cumulative citations to others in his field of endeavor. Based on the limited comparative information 
provided, the Petitioner did not show that the citations to his research represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that some of his articles published in on-line, open access journals have 
been viewed and downloaded with a frequency that far exceeds their citation rates, and have 
collectively been viewed and downloaded over 28,000 times as of the date of the appeal. This 
evidence, unlike evidence of citations to the Petitioner's work, does not demonstrate that other 
researchers have frequently applied or implemented the Petitioner's work, either in their own 
published research or in practice. The supporting evidence does not provide any context regarding the 
significance of these download numbers or a basis for comparison of the Petitioner's download 
statistics in relation to others in in his field. For example, we note that the numerous expert opinion 
letters in the record do not address the Petitioner's article views and downloads in discussing his 
achievements and reputation in the field. While the downloads may show that his articles have been 
read or reviewed, the record does not establish the importance or relevance of the figures provided. 
6 An updated Google Scholar profile submitted in response to a request for evidence indicated 287 cumulative citations to 
the Petitioner's work as of October 2020. The Petitioner's most-cited article is a 2011 review article published in 
Physiology. Three of the Petitioner's five most-cited articles were review articles, rather than publ'"[1'om o£bis ayginal 
research, with the remaining two aiiicles based on olant-based research he conducted a~ l0n the .r J virus. 
His most-cited original research publication in th[ I was his 2019 Journal of Virology article. 
8 
Specifically, he did not demonstrate that such download numbers sufficiently demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence related to his presentations at national and international 
conferences and laces articular em hasis on his particiTation as a presenter at multiple sessions of 
the~---~-~---~--~-,.......... Meeting onl I Participation in conferences 
demonstrates t at 1s origina researc m ings were shared with others in the field. I I I I a professor atc==lUniversity, emphasizes that it is significant that the Petitioner's 
work has been selected by ~r podium presentations on multiple occasions, noting that there 
are "hundreds of competing submissions" and that I I is "one of the most preeminent meetings in 
the field of1 !attended by national and international experts." I I mentions the 
fact that the Petitioner's research is "regularly selected for oral and poster presentations at major 
international conferences, including the renowned I O I meeting," in 
support of his opinion that the Petitioner is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area of I t' I I mentions that he personally "watched [the Petitioner's] notable talks 
and presentations at the internationally renowned .__ ____ __.I ~-------------------' 
The evidence related to the Petitioner's conference presentations provides support for a determination 
that his original research findings are valued for thJ1r significance in an active research field. While 
we do not doubt that the Petitioner's participation in and other meetings and conferences in his 
field has garnered him recognition from conference attendees who attended his talks and viewed his 
poster presentations, the record does not establish how his activities in this area compare to other 
researchers in his field. Further, while the record indicates that there is a competitive peer review 
process associated with participation in these conferences, the evidence does not demonstrate that 
podium and poster presentation opportunities are reserved only for those researchers who are at the 
very top of the field. The selection of the Petitioner's work for the~--------' meeting over 
several consecutive years is noteworthy and reflective of the high quality of that work. However, the 
record does not establish how the Petitioner's scholarly work, whether published or presented, has 
earned him sustained acclaim, or how it sets him apart from others and places him among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights his membership in Sigma Xi, asserting that the Director erred in 
determining that this scientific research honor society does not qualify as an association that requires 
its members to have outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While we disagree with the Director's determination that 
Sigma Xi is not an "association," we agree that the evidence does not establish that it is one which 
requires its members to have outstanding achievements. The Petitioner submitted his membership 
certificate indicating that he was promoted to "foll membership" in 2011, two letters from Sigma Xi, 
the portion of the Sigma Xi bylaws that address membership requirements, and information from the 
society's website. The initial letter from Sigma Xi states that "[f]ull membership is conferred upon 
those who have demonstrated noteworthy achievements in research" and that "Sigma Xi interprets 
'noteworthy achievement' to include primary authorship of two papers" including refereed journal 
articles, patents or internal reports." According to this letter, "[t]he Society also considers career 
preparation, career path, quality of research and similar factors" although these requirements are not 
9 
stated elsewhere in the provided materials and no explanation was provided regarding how these 
factors are weighed. The subsequent letter from Sigma Xi states that "Full Membership is reserved 
to only those leading experts in the field, who have made noteworthy achievements. In our 
organizations' view, the term 'noteworthy' is the same as the term 'outstanding."' 
Even if we determined "noteworthy" and "outstanding" are synonymous and that publication of two 
first-authored publications can be deemed an "outstanding achievement," the record does not offer 
sufficient support for the assertion that only "leading experts in the field" are admitted to full 
membership, or that full membership in the organization reflects or results in national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner does not articulate a claim that he was recognized as a "leading expert" in his 
field when he was admitted as a full member of Sigma Xi in 2011. At that time, he had co-authored 
two published research articles, one in 2006 and one in 2011. While it appears that this record was 
sufficient to meet the "noteworthy achievements" requirement for promotion from associate member 
to full member, and his full membership is notable, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how such 
membership is indicative of his placement among the small percentage of scientific researchers who 
have risen to the top of the field. 
The record also contains 14 recommendation letters from 12 experts in the field that summarize the 
Petitioner's research and original contributions and, in some cases, comment on his overall 
achievements and reputation in the field. Most of the letters comment primarily on the Petitioner's 
research witH I during the few years preceding the filing of the petition. As discussed above, 
we have considered these letters and relied on them, in part, in determining that the Petitioner has been 
recognized for significant research contributions related ttj I based 
on his recent work atl I The importance of his work and contributions has been acknowledged 
through these letters and his record of participation in federally funded research projects, publications, 
presentations, and citations. However, as with all the regulatory criteria, satisfaction of the "original 
contributions" criterion does not establish eligibility or create a presumption of sustained national or 
international acclaim. Letters of this kind can assist in explaining and demonstrating the nature and 
impact of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with corroborating documentary evidence 
to establish that he is recognized as being at the top of the field. While we acknowledge that most of the 
letters are from scientists who have not directly worked or collaborated with the Petitioner, the record 
as a whole does not show that the writers' views represent the consensus within the field. 
While all the authors offer praise for the Petitioner's research achievements to date and expertise in his 
field, they are not uniform in their assessments of his standing and degree of acclaim and recognition in 
the field. As noted,,~-----,----~describes the Petitioner as having a " roductive career as a 
scientific researcher" and as an "expert and distinguished scientist in the field." notes that 
the Petitioner is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area o " and notes his 
"considerable productivity and laudable professional contributions." ~------~' an assistant 
dean at the University ofl I states that he regards the Petitioner as an 
"extraordina[ and successful researcher," a "productive and prominent scientist" and a "very talented 
researcher." _ I describes the Petitioner's work as "commendable and praiseworthy," 
states that his capabilities as a researcher are "exemplary" and expresses his opinion that the Petitioner 
"will continue to be a leading scientist in the future." 
10 
Other letters include more direct assertions regarding the Petitioner's standing in the field ..... I ___ ____,. 
a Professor at I I University, states that he "would place [the Petitioner] among the top 
scientific talents in this vital field" based on his ublications, citat\ons presentations at conferences 
and selection as a peer reviewer for journals. of1 .... _ ---------~- states 
that the Petitioner is "well known internationa y as an 1 ustnous expert in the field." FurtherD I !describes the Petitioner as "clearly an individual of extraordinary abilities that are much 
sought after in the field," whilel lstates that the Petitioner, based on his contributions 
"exceeds the achievements and contributions of others within his field" and "has obtained an 
international reputation that places him at the top of his field." 
Here, while the letters (including those reviewed and not discussed here) praise the Petitioner's 
expertise and contributions to the field, they do not provide sufficient information and explanation, 
nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that he is already viewed by his 
overall field as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We acknowledge that some of the submitted letters referenced the Petitioner's 
publications, citation record, contributions, and peer review activities. However, as discussed above, 
we have reviewed this evidence and do not find, for example, that the Petitioner's experience as a peer 
reviewer or his citation record supports a finding that he has sustained acclaim and is at the very top 
of his field. The record establishes that the Petitioner has performed critical work in the0esearch 
field as a postdoctoral researcher in two distinguished laboratories, and that he has had the opportunity 
to publish and present his original findings. The evidence shows that the Petitioner has increasingly 
gained notice in the field for his research achievements over the past several years, particularly during 
his tenure a~._ ___ _.~nd that he is likely poised for sustained national or international recognition 
in the future. 
However, the record as a whole does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. 
Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at 
the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has the required sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17678947 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an audio engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova 
review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter to the Director for the entry 
of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to their occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed as North American Technical Sales Lead/Technical Director with I lat the time of filing and previously had ten years of progressive work experience with I I in Israel, where he was engaged in the development of professional audio products. 
He is also the co-founder o~ I where he serves as the product designer and owner of ~ product. Previously, he was employed as a product manager forl I 
L_____fand as a freelance sound engineer and audio technology consultant. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed to meet as many as six of these ten criteria, but 
determined that he satisfied only one criterion, related to his leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner has held critical roles withl I and I I and 
establishes that thd I organization has a distinguished reputation in the audio technology 
industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
his field and that he has displayed his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases, and therefore meets 
at least two additional criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (vii). He also maintains that he has 
a "record of significant commercial/critical success in his field," although he does not directly address 
2 
the Director's determination regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which relates to 
commercial success in the performing arts. The Petitioner further emphasizes that the Director should 
have considered "comparable evidence" of his achievements pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).1 
Here, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director's decision did not adequately 
address all the claimed evidentiary criteria and therefore did not adequately explain the reasons for 
denial of the petition. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the 
Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
A review of the Director's decision reflects that he did not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that he 
can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) and did not evaluate evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion. 2 As the Director did not make an initial determination as to whether the Petitioner 
has provided evidence of the display of his work in his field at artistic exhibitions or showcases, we 
will withdraw the decision and remand the matter to the Director for review and entry of a new decision 
that addresses this criterion. 
With regard to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director's decision "summarily dismisses" most of the evidence he submitted, only cursorily 
acknowledges one of several widely used products he has developed, and incorrectly states that all 
letters submitted in support of the petition are from "users" of a service developed by the Petitioner 
"who are not peers in the field." In support of his claim that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence related to various commercially and 
critically successful products he developed for three different companies and submitted letters from 
industry experts, product reviews and other media articles, and other evidence related to these products 
and their widespread use in the live music and recording industry. We agree with the Petitioner's 
assertion that the Director either mis characterized or failed to consider much of the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. As the Director only briefly referenced letters from "users" in his analysis 
of this criterion, he should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of 
those claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. For the reasons discussed above, 
the Director shall issue a new decision that evaluates the evidence submitted in support of the criteria 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's dete1mination that he did not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii), and (iii), which relate to nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes, memberships in associations that 
require outstanding achievements, and published materials about him in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
2 The Petitioner explicitly claimed that he could satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) in a cover letter submitted 
in response to the Director's request for evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously dete1mined 
that he does not meet this criterion, but the Director did not address the display criterion at all in his October 16, 2020 
decision denying the petition. 
3 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (vii). The Director should also consider the Petitioner's claims that 
comparable evidence should be considered in this matter, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). If after 
review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16965334 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a finance minority business coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed his 
decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met 
that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss her appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and 
legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. At the 
outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of the 
unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). As stated previously, a motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall 
be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's 
motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his decision on motion, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the same 
two evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) as in his previous decision, relating to the 
Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others and her leading role for an organization 
having a distinguished reputation. 
In dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criteria pertaining to judging and leading or critical role. We also addressed the Petitioner's claim that 
she met five additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including the criteria related to 
nationally recognized awards or prizes, memberships in associations that require outstanding 
achievements, published material in major media, original contributions of major significance, and 
2 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration. We concluded that because the Petitioner 
satisfied only two criteria, she did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly determined that the previously submitted evidence 
was insufficient to satisfy the criteria relating to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, membership, and high salary or other remuneration criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) 
and (ix). She does not contest our conclusion that she did not submit evidence to satisfy the criteria 
related to published materials at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and original contributions at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 On motion, the Petitioner 
submits a brief claiming that her award of restricted stock units (RSUs) froml I 
I h as part of the Exceptional Contributor Program (ECP) or Long-Term Incentive Program 
(L TIP) award in 2009, 2011 and 2013 qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized award in 
the field of endeavor. 2 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed her arguments and evidence and explained why 
her claims and documentation did not establish eligibility ofl I RSU awards as nationally or 
internationally recognized awards. We acknowledged the Petitioner's assertion thatl lis a large 
and well-known multinational corporation, and that letters issued byl !officials at the time of the 
award indicate that the Petitioner was "part of a selected group of people who were recognized for 
their valuable contribution to the corporate results" and that the awards are "based on substantial 
contributions well above the expectations of the Company." We determined, however, that the 
Petitioner's arguments and evidence, although confirming that theLJ RSUs were given for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, do not show that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in the fields of finance or minority business coaching. We found that there 
is no record in the evidence ofrecognition of these awards from others in the field of finance. Further, 
we noted that an email from an official of the current.__ _______ ...., confirms that it does not 
have "public announcements, photos or certificates documenting these awards," making it unlikely 
that others in the Petitioner's field recognized or were even aware of thel I RSU awards. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F .2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed elif bility under this criterion based on her receipt of other awards from~(a 
certificate dated November 2010 from I acknowledging the Petitioner as "the reference 
point of the organization for her 'integrity' and 'compliance with standards and policies;"' service pins recognizing the 
Petitioner's employment with the company for 5, 15, 20 and 25 years) and a plaque and letter from the University of I I confirming that she earned the highest grade point average in her graduating class of economics majors in April 
1987. She has not pursued these claims on motion. 
3 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that "RSU awards are extremely well known and recognized by 
others in the financial world" and "are granted to very high-level employees in the most important 
companies that are publicly traded in the different stock exchanges of the world." Although the 
Petitioner provides several websites that it asserts provide "[ d]etailed explanations regarding this type 
of award," these do not mention or demonstrate the national or international recognition of excellence 
in the field of the I IRSU awards. For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 3 On motion, the Petitioner maintains that she satisfies 
this criterion based on her membership in The Venezuelan American Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry (VENAMCHAM).4 In our appellate decision, we discussed the Petitioner's assertion that 
her membership on the Corporate Finance committee of this association qualifies under this criterion, 
and reviewed several documents submitted in support of this criterion. 
Our appellate decision noted that the Petitioner provided a copy of an email from the association 
welcoming her to the Corporate Finance and Capital Market committee, which states that the 
committee's goal is to offer updated information and focuses on gathering company leaders into work 
groups. In addition, a document titled "Rules of the Work and Services Committees" states that 
members of committees should be nominated by the key contact of the VEN AM CHAM enterprise 
member, and that the candidate's curriculum vitae and other documents are sent to the committee 
president for review. Another document, which appears to be from the association's website but does 
not include the webpage address, states that the committees "bring together professional executives of 
different positions," and indicates that the Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee is 
"formed by 103 members that work as General Managers and Finance Directors" for member 
companies. It goes on to state that each member company may appoint up to two executives to 
participate in each committee. An additional document, titled "Requirements and Profile of 
Executives in Order to Join the Committees," repeats the requirements noted above, and adds that the 
member of the Corporate Finance committee should occupy "the highest position of your company" 
in that functional area. 
Based on the documentation submitted we determined that although the membership rules of 
VENAMCHAM's Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee require a candidate to have 
reached a certain level of professional achievement, namely the highest finance position within their 
3 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's 
distinguished achievements in original research) . 
4 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility under this criterir based on her membership in the Controllers of Venezuela 
Group and the Economists Association orl,_ _____ __, She has not pursued these claims on motion. 
4 
company, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that reaching a certain position within a company's 
hierarchy is considered to be an outstanding achievement. Further, we concluded that there is 
insufficient information regarding the requirements of a committee chairman or president to establish 
that such an individual is inherently a nationally or internationally recognized expert within the field 
of finance. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we improperly analyzed the evidence under this criterion and 
utilized novel evidentiary requirements. She argues that "[t]he focus of inquiry on appeal should be 
on VENAMCHAM's membership requirements and processes, and the factors it takes into 
consideration in determining whether the Petitioner has the requisite level of achievement to become 
a member of the organization, rather than whether the position within c=]' s internal company 
hierarchy is considered an outstanding achievement." Here, in determining whether membership in 
VENAMCHAM's Corporate Finance committee requires outstanding achievements we examined its 
membership requirements and found that the Petitioner has not demonstrated they require outstanding 
achievement, but we did not utilize novel evidentiary requirements as the Petitioner suggests. 5 As the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that having reached a certain position within a company's hierarchy 
is an outstanding achievement, as judged by recognized national or international experts within the 
field of finance, the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that we did not reference a letter from VENAMCHAM dated June 29, 
2018, that confirms what the Committees of VENAMCHAM do and the Petitioner's membership in 
VENAMCHAM. While this letter states that the Petitioner was a member of VENAMCHAM's 
Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee from June 2011 to November 2013, it does not 
show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field of finance. 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed the Petitioner's arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish that membership in VENAMCHAM's 
Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of finance. For the reasons 
discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In our appellate decision, we noted that the documentation submitted under this criterion included 
letters from.__ _____ ____, evidencing the Petitioner's salary and remuneration, a number of 
receipts and other documents relating to non-cash benefits such as a mobile phone and a company car, 
and the Petitioner's Forms DPN-99025, Income Tax Final Statement and Payment for Resident 
Natural Persons and Unvested Inheritances, issued by the government of Venezuela for 2011, 2012, 
and 2013. 
5 USCIS may not utilize novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 758 (9th Cir.2008). 
5 
Regarding the letters from I I we noted that a letter dated April 2011 discussing the 
Petitioner's salary and benefits indicates that her "total annual fixed remuneration" as of May 1 was 
Bs. 660,705.20, and that she would receive a variable performance-based bonus of anywhere between 
0-50% of her "annual base salary." In addition, the letter stated that her "non-cash benefits" included 
a company car, along with maintenance and repair expenses; health, auto and life insurance; a mobile 
phone, and a pension plan. A letter dated June 18, 2018, states that at the time of her departure from 
the company in 2013, she was earning a "basic monthly salary" ofBs. 71,271.00, and an annual salary 
at the rate of Bs. 1,313,524.53. The Petitioner also submitted a number of receipts and other 
documents relating to "non-cash benefits," and asserted that when considered together, her total 
remuneration in 2013 was the equivalent of $336,165.64. 
In examining the above evidence, we noted that the Petitioner's Forms DPN-99025 indicate that in 
2011, 2012, and 2013 the Petitioner earned "Salary, Wages & Other Similar Income" of 
Bs. 308,675.84, Bs. 405,144.00 and Bs. 475,768.00, respectively. We found that the Petitioner does 
not explain, or provide evidence sufficient to show, why these figures differ substantially from those 
in the letters from her employer. In addition, we noted that the employer letter regarding the 
Petitioner's 2013 salary does not explain the difference between the basic monthly rate, which when 
annualized is equivalent to Bs. 855,252, and the annual salary rate ofBs. 1,313,524.53. We determined 
that the Petitioner also does not explain whether the "total annual fixed remuneration" figure shown 
in the 2011 employer letter is an annualized basic monthly rate or equivalent to the annual salary figure 
listed in the 2018 letter. Further, neither letter explains whether the benefits listed in the 2011 letter 
( and presumably carried over to the same position in 2013) were already figured into the annual figures 
given in both letters. 
For the purpose of comparison of her salary and total remuneration to that of others in her field, the 
Petitioner provided a survey conducted by VENAMCHAM in May 2013, partial results of which are 
included in and summarized by a slide presentation from "the PGA Group" and an article in a 
magazine called Business Venezuela. 6 We noted that the slides indicate that 187 companies were 
surveyed, and the results were grouped by five position levels, three company sizes, and eight 
functional areas. We found that the article differentiates between basic monthly salary and total annual 
salary or compensation, which includes commissions, bonuses and other performance-based 
incentives, as well as benefits such as "direct payments, company profit sharing, paid vacations and 
other sundry variable payments." We noted that the article also states that Venezuelan workers 
essentially receive "around 19 or 20 (monthly) salaries per year," which appears to account for the 
difference in the monthly versus annual amounts stated in the article as well as the Petitioner's 2013 
employer letter, and we found that the ratio of her stated salary to her total compensation is close to 
the expected ratio indicated in the article. We also noted that the article does not specifically indicate 
whether other benefits received by the Petitioner such as a company car and insurance premiums are 
typically received by directors. We concluded that, based on the ambiguity in both the employer letters 
and the data provided in the VENAMCHAM survey, we considered the annual salary listed in the 
2013 letter in the amount of Bs. 1,313,524.53 to represent the Petitioner's total remuneration for 
purposes of comparison to the survey data, and not consider the values suggested by the receipts 
6 The Petitioner previously claimed that salary surveys from a number of additional sources, including a company called 
Mercer, the websites glassdoor.com and payscale.com, and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook 
Handbook, established her eligibility under this criterion. She has not addressed these sources on motion. 
6 
relating to non-cash benefits. 
We found that the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the value of some of the services shown 
by the receipts was received by her, as the receipts for car maintenance and mobile phone services are 
not in her name. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that under Venezuelan tax law, the value of 
benefits such as repairs and maintenance to company vehicles, mobile phone services, and insurance 
premiums are considered as part of an individual's total compensation, or how the value of those 
benefits is calculated. Further, regarding the RSUs awarded to the Petitioner based upon her 
performance, we stated that a fact sheet regarding the award program notes that in most countries, "the 
value ofRSUs at vesting is reportable as taxable income," and the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
the value of her vested RSUs should be considered in addition to the values reported in her tax returns 
or in the letters froni I We again noted that there is a large difference between the 
salary and wages reported on the Petitioner's income tax forms and those stated in the letters from her 
employer, and this difference has not been explained. 
In comparing the Petitioner's total remuneration to the survey data, we found that the Petitioner has 
not met the requirements of this criterion. 7 We determined the relevant data from this survey indicates 
that directors, identified as those executives below the chairman or general manager level but above 
the managerial level, in large companies such as I I earned an average total 
compensation of Bs. 948,000 in 2013. In comparison, the Petitioner's total compensation rate8 in 
2013 was Bs. 1,313,524.53, or approximately 138% of the average. We noted, however, that the 
survey data does not provide a range of salary and total compensation figures from low to high, and 
therefore does not provide a complete picture of the compensation received by others in the 
Petitioner's field. While her total remuneration was above the average in relation to others in her field, 
she has not established that it was "significantly high" as required by the plain language of this 
criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that "the total annual remuneration of the Petitioner must be 
considered as per thel I letter" to include "the RSUs plus the car benefit (use of a car plus 
maintenance) and use of a mobile phone." She claims that for 2013 her total annual remuneration was 
Bs. 2,265,066.05 (the equivalent of $359,534.17), which included "sub-total" annual remuneration of 
Bs. 1,313,524.53, "car and mobile benefit" of Bs. 511,691.72, and RSUs of Bs. 439,850.25. The 
Petitioner asserts that, pursuant to Venezuelan labor law, the RSUs, car allowance, and mobile phone 
benefits "were treated as non-taxable" but must be "included as part of her total annual remuneration." 
However, she has not shown, as explained in our previous decision, that under Venezuelan tax law, 
the value of benefits such as repairs and maintenance to company vehicles and mobile phone services 
are considered as part of an individual's total compensation, how they are calculated, or why the value 
7 We noted that average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. Rather, a petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings 
of those in his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson 
v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
8 We considered the rate at which she was paid in 2013, as the Petitioner states that she left.__ ______ __,at some 
point in that year after the company was acquired. 
7 
of her vested RS Us should be considered in addition to the values reported in her tax returns or in the 
letters from.__ ______ _. In addition, although the Petitioner acknowledges our concerns 
regarding the fact that the receipts for car maintenance and mobile phone services are not in her name, 
she does not address these concerns and, therefore, has not established that the value of those services 
was received by her. 
Moreover, on motion, the Petitioner maintains that according to the VENAMCHAM survey her total 
annual remuneration in 2013 is a significantly high salary when compared to the average total 
compensation ofBs. 948,000 in 2013 earned by directors in large companies such asl I 
The Petitioner, however, does not address our conclusion that the survey data does not provide a range 
of salary and total compensation figures from low to high and therefore does not provide a complete 
picture of the compensation received by others in the Petitioner's field. Although the VENAMCHAM 
survey data indicated her total remuneration was above the average in relation to others in her field, 
she has not established that it was "significantly high" as required by the plain language of this 
criterion. 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed the Petitioner's arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish that she has commanded a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. For the reasons 
discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim on motion that the Director misapplied Kazarian, 596 
F. 3d at 1119-20 and, instead, should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 
1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994). According to the Petitioner, this case held that the burden shifts to USCIS 
once it determines that the evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria listed in the regulation. 
Because we have already concluded that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the 
law or USCIS policy in concluding that she did not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we reserve this issue. 9 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). We also note that, in contrast to the broad 
precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court we are not bound to follow the published decision of 
a United States district court in matters arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). 
Although the reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration, the analysis does not have 
to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17586783 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral associate in the computational chemistry field, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies the initial evidence requirements 
and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher in the field of computational chemistry and was employed as a 
postdoctoral associate in the Department of Chemistry atc=]University at the time this petition was 
filed. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy three of these 
criteria. The Director determined that he met two, specifically the criteria related to judging the work 
of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied these two criteria. The record 
reflects that he has peer reviewed manuscripts for professional publications including Journal of 
Molecular Modeling and Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling and therefore satisfied the 
judging criterion. In addition, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly 
articles published in various journals, including Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 
Chemical Reviews, Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, and Journal of Physical 
Chemistry B. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the third claimed criterion, relating to original 
contributions of major significance in his field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that the Director's decision contains "almost no discussion of the particular evidence 
submitted" in support of this criterion, noting that much of the analysis was directly copied from the 
request for evidence issued prior to the denial of the petition. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that 
he has met this criterion through citation of his published research in molecular modeling and 
contributions to a widely used software program in his field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion 
that the Director's decision did not adequately address certain evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml ] thel lin Organic 
Chemistry at University ot1 11 I discusses the Petitioner's development 
of al ~ software program, the results of which 
he published in Journal of Chemical Information and Model1n: in 2) 16. I I discusses in detail 
why the Petitioner's I I program, the first developed in is recognized as having superior 
functionality and efficacy compared to previous programs of its type, noting that it "supports extensive 
I I force fields as well as I I ions." He explains that the Petitioner's program has 
been released as part of the ] I molecular dynamics software package since 2015, emphasizing 
that "[g]iven that thel I software package is a widely used tool in molecular dynamics research, 
it is clear that [ the Petitioner's] enhancements to this software serve to accelerate research in the field." 
I I also emphasizes that the Petitioner's published article on thel f program has received 
a significant number of citations and emphasizes the Petitioner has been invited to write a book chapter 
on the program "for a project in which the editors 'aim to selectively review some of the most 
influential advances' in the field." Finally, he explains how his own research team and others have 
used the Petitioner'~'------'~ program in studies that have advanced! I engineering techniques. 
The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner has been listed as an author of the I I 
software package since 2015, additional background information abou~and how it is used to 
advance research in several fields, and a letter fro~ lo niversity'~ 
for Quantitative Biomedicine, who is a primary author of the software. explains thaL___J 
is widely used in the field of computational chemistry and he echoe s statement that the 
Petitioner, "[b ]y facilitating the simulation o~ lions, ... has vastly expanded the applications and 
utility of this software package." 
The Petitioner's Google Scholar citation history submitted at the time of filing reflects that 
approximately two-thirds of his cumulative citations related to his publication on thel I 
program and to thel I software package that incorporated that program. The evidence in the 
record, including the evidence discussed above, is sufficient to demonstrate the nature and significance 
of the Petitioner's contributions to a widely used molecular dynamics modeling software in his field. 
Accordingly, we conclude that he established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v) and meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that he satisfies three criteria and meets the initial evidence requirement, 
we will evaluate below whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
3 
the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor of science in chemistry from~I --~ 
University in China in 2011 and earned his doctorate degree in chemistry atl !University 
in 2016. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner has worked as a graduate research assistant 
at both! I and the University ofl I and as a visiting graduate scholar atl I 
University. After completing his Ph.D., the Petitioner worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the 
University o~ lbefore joiningD University's Department of Chemistry 
as a postdoctoral associate in January 2018. He remained in that position, in F-1 nonimmigrant student 
status, at the time he filed this petition in July 2019. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field through the peer review 
process, has made contributions to his field, and has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications. However, the record does not demonstrate that his achievements to date are reflective of 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress at H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990), or the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute requires. 
As it relates to his experience judging the work of others in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence 
that he has peer reviewed at least 50 manuscripts for 14 different journals in his field since 2015.1 
Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
sustained national or international acclaim. An evaluation of the significance of the Petitioner's peer 
review experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 
The Petitioner argues that the frequency with which he has peer reviewed articles, and the reputation 
and rankings of the journals that invited him to serve as a peer reviewer, support a determination that 
he is at the top of his field of endeavor. Specifically, he maintains that his "standing as a leading 
expert is clear from his 50 reviews for many prestigious journals." In addition, he has asserted that 
"only top-level experts in their field are invited to perform this important review work, so this frequent 
review activity further demonstrates [his] important standing the field." The Petitioner provided 
journal rankings from Google Scholar indicating that many of the journals for which he has served as 
a peer reviewer are ranked in the top ten in their respective subject matter sub-categories in terms of 
their "h-5 index," a measure related to the journals' respective impact factors. 
However, the record does not contain sufficient support for his claim that only "top-level experts" are 
typically invited to participate in the peer review process for scientific journals. The Petitioner did 
not, for example, provide evidence that the specific journals that invited him to serve as a peer reviewer 
reserve those invitations for researchers who are recognized as being at the very top of the field or 
otherwise enjoy standing in the field consistent with sustained national or international acclaim.c=J 
~---_..,,.who served as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor atl !University, provided a 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner had completed 16 reviews for Journal of Molecular Modeling. 13 reviews for 
Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, and one or two reviews for most of other 12 journals that have invited 
him to review manuscripts. 
4 
letter in which he mentions that the Petitioner is an "active peer reviewer" for a number of leading 
journals, noting that "peer review service is a critical component of the academic research process" 
and that "only verified experts are entrusted with such a duty."I lasserts that the Petitioner's 
"frequent peer review service confirms his overall expertise" and his standing as a "valuable 
researcher" in their shared field. 
We do not question! ~ s opinion that the Petitioner's activities as a peer reviewer demonstrate 
his acknowledged expertise in chemistry, particularly in computational chemistry and molecular 
modeling, and his stature as a valued and active researcher in this field. At issue here is the extent to 
which the Petitioner's peer review activities have required, reflected, or resulted in his national or 
international acclaim. As noted, the Petitioner did not establish the various journals' requirements for 
selection of peer reviewers, and therefore we are unable to evaluate his peer review activities in light 
of those requirements. For example, reviewing manuscripts for journals that select peer reviewers 
based on subject matter expertise would not provide strong support for the petition, because possessing 
expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than enjoying sustained acclaim in the field. 
Therefore, although the record shows that the Petitioner has reviewed numerous manuscripts for 
reputable journals, it does not demonstrate how his peer review activity compares to or differentiates 
him from his peers in the field. Similarly, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has received any independent acclaim or recognition for his service as a peer reviewer. 
Without this or other evidence differentiating him from others in his field, the Petitioner has not 
established how his peer review experience contributes to establishing his sustained national or 
international acclaim or how it places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to his authorship of scholarly articles, the Petitioner emphasized that his work has resulted 
in "15 peer-reviewed articles and 5 published software packages," and "has been published in some 
of the most prestigious high impact journals in his field." He acknowledges that "publication is a 
relatively common activity for researchers and thus is not necessarily indicative of one's extraordinary 
ability." However, he asserts that he has consistently published in "top-ranked journals" and 
highlights the ranking and impact factor of seven of the journals that have published his work, 
including Chemical Reviews and Journal of the American Chemical Society. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that this record of publication establishes that "his work has been recognized as some of 
the best in the field," noting that publication in such journals is "a rare accomplishment achieved by 
only the best researchers in the field." 
A high ranking or impact factor reflects a publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, 
show the influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has had an 
impact within the field. Further, the evidence in the record does not establish that publication in a 
journal with a high impact factor alone demonstrates that an individual researcher has achieved wide 
recognition consistent with national or international acclaim. The Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
support for his claim that publication in highly ranked journals is an accomplishment only achieved 
by those at the very top of the field, or one which automatically elevates a researcher to the top of the 
field. 
5 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. 
Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d 
at 1122. Here, the Petitioner has consistently emphasized that his research productivity and the 
individual and collective citations to his work, according to several metrics and statistics, 
"quantitatively place [him] at the very top of his field of endeavor." 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted his Google Scholar profile indicating that his most-cited 
research article, published in 2013, had 230 citations. This was followed by articles published in 2017, 
2016 and 2015 that had received 104, 74 and 69 citations, respectively.2 The Petitioner maintains that 
a number of his individual publications have been cited "at a much higher rate than those of other 
researchers in the field." The Petitioner submitted an "InCites Essential Science Indicators" chart 
published by Clarivate Analytics in 2019. This evidence shows "baseline" citation rates in a small 
number of broad fields for the years 2008 through 2018, as well citation figures by percentile for the 
same fields and years. The Petitioner emphasizes that based on this data, he has four published papers 
with citations that fall within the top 10 percent, two in the top 1 percent, and one in the top 0 .1 percent. 
He states that his article citation rates for these seven papers are "between 3 and 29 times higher than 
the average number of citations in the [chemistry] field for their respective publication years, clearly 
distinguishing him from other researchers in the field." 
This evidence demonstrates that several of the Petitioner's individual articles have been cited at a rate 
that is above average in his field, and in some cases, well above the average rate. The comparative 
ranking of his individual papers to baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically 
establish that he is widely recognized as being among the small percentage of researchers at the top of 
his field. 3 The Petitioner has not demonstrated how citation to his publications, individually or 
collectively, compares to scientists who enjoy sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner also presented a document regarding his citation count percentiles and paper count 
percentiles which appears to have been self-compiled using "Microsoft Academic" as the data source. 
The Petitioner states that this data compares his research impact to that of other researchers in the 
broad fields of biology, chemistry, and computer science, and maintains that this evidence 
demonstrates that he is "in the top 1.42% in terms of research productivity" compared to other 
researchers in these fields, and "in the top 0.14% in terms of overall citation impact."4 While the 
2 The Petitioner's most cited work according to Google Scholar was the software package I t which 
accounted for 1049 ( over 58 percent) of his 1797 citations at the time of filing. Overall, 62 percent of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations were to different releases of th~I I software package, for which he was credited as one of 
dozens of contributors. 
3 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, chemistry papers published in 2017 that received only 11 
citations were in the top 10%, and only 3 citations were needed to reach this threshold for papers published in 2018. A 
supporting explanation regarding the reported citation rates indicates that "[t]he citation rate in any single year can serve 
as a baseline to assess the impact of a paper in the same research field published in that year." The publisher does not 
claim that such percentile figures are intended to provide information regarding a given author's standing in a particular 
field. 
4 The document he provided indicated that the model used to obtain these figures included over 29 million authors and 
over 20 million publications published between 2011 and 2019, but there is no further explanation for how these percentiles 
were derived. 
6 
Petitioner provides documentation corroborating the values, he does not submit evidence 
demonstrating how these metrics were calculated or how these percentiles reflect his sustained national 
or international acclaim in the field of computational chemistry. 
In addition to the various metrics discussed above, the Petitioner provided the Google Scholar profiles 
of "12 other extraordinary researchers" in his field. He emphasized that he has accrued more total 
citations than each of these scientists "all of whom conduct research at top-tier institutions in his field." 
The submitted profiles were those of assistant and associate professors in chemistry (mainly at public 
and private U.S. universities) who had accrued total citations to their published work that ranged from 
243 to 2095 citations. 5 The evidence objectively shows that the Petitioner had accumulated more 
cumulative citations than each of the 12 researchers that he specifically selected as a basis for 
comparison. However, while the Petitioner submitted copies of these individuals' resumes or 
biographical pages from their universities' websites, he did not explain how this evidence supports a 
determination that any of them enjoy recognition as "extraordinary researchers" or leading scientists 
at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner's citation evidence indicates that he has been a productive researcher during his career 
thus far, and that other researchers in the field have noticed his work by citing to his publications and 
using thel lsoftware package that incorporates hid !program. However, he did not 
show that the citations to his research and software represent attention at a level consistent with being 
among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The statute demands 
"extensive documentation" of recognition. Despite his reliance on various metrics and data relating 
to citation rates, the Petitioner did not, for instance, compare his citations to others in his field of 
endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. We have taken the Petitioner's 
publication and citation record into consideration, but he cannot rely primarily on that record to 
mathematically place himself at the top of the field without other persuasive evidence of his sustained 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided examples of eight "notable independent citations" to his work and 
asserted that such citations distinguish him "as one of the top contributors" to his field of study. A 
study published by Khavana et al. in Journal of Molecular Liquids states that "[t]he parameters of the 
metal cations were obtained from the report of Li et al.," citing to the Petitioner's 2013 Journal of 
Chemical Theory and Computation article. An article published by Turner et al. in the Journal of 
Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics states that "metal parameters were obtained using the MCPB.py 
program," citing to the Petitioner's 2016 Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling article. Other 
articles submitted as examples of "notable citations" reference this 2016 article in a similar fashion. 
The Petitioner maintains that such citations show that his work has been singled out for special 
attention, but he has not established how mentions of this kind translate into sustained national or 
international acclaim. With the exception of a Biochemistry article in which the authors state that they 
based their molecular dynamics simulation models on "pioneering work" by the Petitioner, the articles 
generally discuss the dozens of cited source articles in similar terms; there is no special emphasis on 
his work. The submitted articles acknowledge the Petitioner's research contributions to the 
5 At the time the Petitioner submitted this evidence in November 2019, he had received 2124 cumulative citations to his 
articles and software packages. 
7 
advancement of what appears to be an active field of research but are not indications that he has been 
recognized by the field as one of the small percentage ofresearchers at the very top. 
As discussed above, we have acknowlrged thl significance of the Petitioner's contribution of the I !program to the widely used software package. The submitted evidence reflects 
that he was one of 3 9 contributors to the codes for the 2015 release and establishes that hid I 
program represented an important advance to the software package's capabilities and utility. 
However, it does not establish the level or scope of individual recognition or acclaim he has received 
as a result of this contribution, and the record does not support a determination that credited 
contributions to this software package are sufficient to elevate a researcher to the top of the field. The 
Petitioner indicates in the "professional services" section of his curriculum vitae that he "serves the 
I I mailing list and is consulted about issues related to metal ion modeling," and the record 
contains email correspondence confirming that he is consulted by other scientists in this capacity. The 
Petitioner's curriculum vitae also shows that he has delivered updates and other oral presentations at 
several annuall I developer meetings, but he does not claim to have received widespread 
sustained individual recognition within the broader field based on his participation at these 
conferences. 
We have also reviewed four recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's research and other 
achievements. Letters of this kind can help to explain the nature and impact of the Petitioner's 
contributions and, as noted, we have weighed this evidence in determining that the Petitioner has made 
significant contributions to the computational chemistry field. However, such letters should be supported 
with sufficient corroborating documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner is recognized as being 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has garnered the 
required sustained national and international acclaim for his achievements. 
In his letter.._] __ ___.I describes the Petitioner's research contributions and the benefits those contributions 
provide to the field. As noted, he also asserts that the Petitioner's "peer review service confirms his 
overall expertise," and that the combination of his credentials, research, and peer review service "confirm 
him to be a uniquely valuable researcher."! I states that his own reliance on the Petitioner's 
research "affirms that he is a respected and valued member of the field" and he further concludes that the 
Petitioner is "a renowned scholar whose work is vital to continued progress in chemistry." While both of 
these letters offer praise for the Petitioner's research achievements to date, they do not offer sufficient 
support for a conclusion that he has garnered sustained acclaim and that he is currently recognized as 
being among the small percentage ofresearchers at the top of his field . 
.__ _______ __, an associate professor of chemistry at the University ofl I attests to the 
"quality and importance of [the Petitioner's] ongoing research in chemical modeling techniques." She 
emphasizes that the Petitioner's works "have accrued over 1500 citations, a remarkable quantity affirming 
that he is at the very top of his field,'~does not elaborate on her basis for drawing this conclusion. 
I ., I a professor atl___J University in Sweden, discusses the Petitioner's citation 
history in somewhat different terms, noting only that his record "exceeds the usual standards for a 
chemist" and indicates that he is "a highly influential researcher overall." For the reasons already 
discussed, the Petitioner's citation history alone is insufficient to establish his eligibility for this 
classification. Whil~ I and I I also discuss the importance and influence of the 
Petitioner's work in their shared field, and the benefits that may be derived from such work, they do not 
8 
offer additional explanation for how the Petitioner's achievements as a postdoctoral researcher to date 
have earned him recognition that places him at the top of that field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. He seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The record reflects that the Petitioner, although still 
quite early in his postdoctoral career, has made significant research findings and contributions that 
advance his field. The evidence related to his scholarly articles, citation rates and peer review service 
reflects that he has been recognized for his contributions and expertise in his field, but falls short of 
establishing that he satisfied all requirements for this classification at the time of filing. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 8516350 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a physical scientist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991), The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that after he co-founded.__ ________ an instrument and apparatus 
business that measures an I I in 2005, he returned to China in November 2018 but 
"maintains good disclosure of his activities atl ~ with [the] University! I 
2 
.__ ____ __.I' Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. As the 
Petitioner claims no other criterion, beyond those discussed herein, we consider the remaining 
eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to be waived. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that his "work onl I has substantially influenced extendinf the 
range of applications for I I through the production of I for 
multifunctionalities." In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
In his brief, the Petitioner contends that his publication in "top journals and conferences [] proves that 
experts in his field find his work to be majorly significant." Specifically, the Petitioner points to the 
publication of his articles in ACS Nano, Journal of Materials C, Proceedings of the National Academy 
of Sciences, Nature, Journal of the American Ceramic Society, and International Journal of Applied 
Glass Science. However, the Petitioner has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked 
or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original." this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that he submitted "mulltiple aTcles that have been cited at a rate far 
exceeding that at which papers published by other experts have been cited, each thus 
constituting an original scholarly contribution of major significance." The Petitioner claims that his 
"articles have earned more citations that 90 -99% of other researchers who have published in the 
same field and time period." The record contains data from InCites Essential Indicators regarding 
baseline citation rates and percentiles by year of publication for various research fields, including 
engineering. 2 
The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically 
establish majorly significant contributions in the field. 3 Again, the issue for this criterion is whether 
the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than where his 
citation rates rank among the averages of others in his field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, 
would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field 
views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that ten of his articles at the time of filing, using InCites 
Essential Science Indicators methodology through citation numbers and percentiles, resulted in 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that his published articles had "been cited 272 times at the time of 
filing."4 This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
his cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance in the field. 
Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than 
identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that 
his three highest cited articles received 38 (International Journal of Applied Glass Sciences), 38 
( Optics Letters), and 33 (Nature) citations, respectively. 5 Once again, this criterion requires the 
Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of his 
2 The documentation reflects that"[ c ]itation frequency is highly skewed, with many infrequently cited papers and relatively 
few highly cited papers," and"[ c ]onsequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as representing the central tendency 
of the distribution." Thus, the Petitioner did not show the reliability of the figures. 
3 For instance, according to the data from InCites Essential Indicators, engineering papers published in 2013 receiving five 
citations and in 2014 receiving two citations were in the top 10%, while papers published in 2013 receiving 13 citations 
and in 2014 receiving five citations were in the top 1 %. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with such citation 
counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among the top 10% 
of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
4 The Petitioner also claims that his published aiticles have now received over a thousand citations. Although the Petitioner 
indicates an unnamed exhibit as "(Exhibits [ citation record], [EST])," the Petitioner does not provide such exhibit on appeal, 
nor is there any supporting documentation to corroborate his asseitions. In fact, the Petitioner's "Index of Exhibits" does 
not list any citation evidence. Moreover, the additional citations to aiticles published after the initial filing will not be 
considered. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied 
from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. 
4 
published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For example, he did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations are indicative that his 
research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation 
numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted excerpts of articles, including international 
articles, which cited to his work. 7 A review of those articles, though, do not show the significance of 
the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 8 For instance 
the Petitioner provided a partial article entitled, 
'--------~--------------------------' (Applied 
Optics), in which the authors cited to two of his articles. 9 However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers. 10 The paper does not indicate that 
the Petitioner's article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. 
Instead, the article briefly references his work as a type of technology and technique. The Petitioner 
has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that he "co-founded~--------~ and the company has 
been in operation as of July 31, 2005." Althou2:h the Director questioned the Petitioner's position and 
operational status of I ] this was not an issue for the decision regarding the 
Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. While the Petitioner provides documentation relating to the 
company's existence, operational status, and ongoing business activity, he did not demonstrate how 
the documentation represents original contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner 
does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that he made original contributions of major significance 
in the field through his employment or affiliation wit~ I 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that he presented testimonials attesting to his majorly significant 
contributions. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their 
publications in journals, and point to the citations of his work by others. Although they reflect the 
novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level of major significance 
required by this criterion. For instance,! I stated that the Petitioner's work 
inl l"has provided for untold innovations for materials science, nanotechnology, fluid 
dynamics, and other interrelated disciplined."11 However, I ~id not offer any 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 Although he claims that he "has been widely cited by independent researchers around the world," the Petitioner did not 
establish how being cited by international researchers shows that his research is considered to be majorly significant. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 The Petitioner provided only a partial page of citations reflecting that the article cited to at least 45 articles. 
11 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
example of the "untold innovations" or describe how the Petitioner has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarly, while~------~ claimed that the Petitioner "made a notable impact upon 
the I 1 I' he did not supplement his letter with specific examples showing how the Petitioner 
impacted the field in a significant way. Instead, the I I indicated the Petitioner's publication 
of articles in journals and citations by others. 
Furthermore, some of the letters speculate on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
propose that he will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. For example,! I 
~---_....,......professor of electrical and computer engineering ate=] opined that the Petitioner's 
research "paves the way for greater applications in spectroscopy, remote sensing, pollutant detection, 
and defense usages," but he did not elaborate and explain if the research has ever been applied in the 
field. Likewise.I brofessor of material sciences at thel I I !claimed that "[t]his revolutionary process can be performed by hand," but he did 
not farther discuss whether the Petitioner's research has affected previous procedures, let alone actual 
implementation in the field. While the letters shows promise in the Petitioner's work, they do not 
establish how his work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than 
prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of his work has yet to be determined or 
measured. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.13 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. 
The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
12 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(2). 
13 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
has not shown that the significance of his work reflects the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11823566 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 04, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate his 
sustained national or international acclaim and establish that he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-
376 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television director active in the Chinese teleyision industry The record reflects 
that he began work as a director in 2005 on the television serie~ I and that he ~----~ continued to do so during the pendency of the instant petition. 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) relating to published material, judging, and to authorship of 
scholarly articles. First, the Petitioner provides an interview published in The Beijing News in which 
he discusses his work as a producer, as well as circulation statistics for and information about The 
Beijing News and other comparable media demonstrating that it is a major media publication. 
Accordingly, he has established his eligibility for the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Next, the record includes the Petitioner's invitation to judge the 20171 I 
.__ _ ___.I A wards and a certificate of appreciation confirming that he did so, showing that he satisfies 
the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Finally, the Petitioner submits evidence 
establishing that he meets the scholarly criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) through publication of 
articles in China Television and Contemporary TV and by providing documentation establishing that 
China Television and Contemporary TV are professional publications. Accordingly we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner meets has satisfied the criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), 
and (vi). 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he also satisfies the additional evidentiary criteria related to 
membership, leading or critical role in an organization with a distinguished reputation, and commercial 
2 
success found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii),(viii), and (x). 1 As the Petitioner established that he meets 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria, we need not reach a finding on these additional criteria here. 
We will address the evidence submitted by the Petitioner regarding these criteria in the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
Regarding published material about the Petitioner, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner 
about his work as a producer for the television series I I published in The Beijing News 
and two articles published in People's Daily. It also includes objective evidence sufficient to show 
that The Beijing News and People's Daily qualify as major media. With respect to a fourth article in 
the record, published online at toutiao.com, upon review, we note that it appears to focus on fonding 
I I rather than on the Petitioner himself. The record also contains articles published in 
L~fe Week, Guangming Dail]' and Liaoshen Evening News about the Petitioner and his work as a 
producer fo~~-----~television series. 
Upon review, the Petitioner does not submit documentation showing that the seven articles, published 
over the course of a 15-year career in the television industry, are consistent with the sustained national 
or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. The submitted media 
coverage shows that the Petitioner has received media recognition for producing multiple seasons of 
I Ian endeavor beginning in 2006. However, the Petitioner works in a high-profile 
industry in which most, if not all, projects receive media coverage to some extent. Without evidence 
that sets him apart from others in this field, the Petitioner has not established how the submission of 
these articles about him demonstrates that he is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed 
regulations implementing section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a 
very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring 
the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 
56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
With regard to the Petitioner's scholarly articles, he provides abstracts of articles published in the 
China Television and Contemporary TV and documentation about the intended audiences for these 
publications sufficient to show that they are professional publications. The Petitioner farther submits 
evidence from the China Academic Journals database (CNKI) showing that his most frequently 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that he had not satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). We therefore deem the issue waived and do not address it in our analysis. 
3 
downloaded China Television article has been retrieved 243 times. This evidence demonstrates that 
the Petitioner's work has received some recognition from others. However, the record does not include 
evidence sufficient to establish that CNKI' s core users are persons in his field of endeavor. Instead, 
the Petitioner provides CNKI documentation identifying the database's core users as "ranging from 
top universities, research institutes, government think-tanks" among others, but this document does 
not indicate that the persons downloading his articles are in the field of filmmaking or his work has 
greatly influenced or impacted others in the field. Without evidence showing the significance of this 
statistical data, the Petitioner has not established that the downloads of his scholarly articles reflect 
recognition in his field in a manner consistent one who is among "that small percentage who [has] 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to the judging criterion, the Petitioner argues on appeal that his participation as a judge 
for thd I Awards is indicative of his sustained national or international acclaim as 
"only the top talent is invited to participate." As we note above, the Petitioner provided evidence 
showing that in 201 7 he served on the judging committee responsible for selecting thel I 
.__ _ ___.I Awards semi-final round nominees. A review of the record farther establishes that the 
Petitioner has achieved some national acclaim for his selection as a juror, as evidenced by a news 
article about thd , I Award semi-final jury in which he is identified by name, along 
with other notable actors and directors. 
However, the evidence discussed above does not address how this single instance of judging is 
indicative of national or international acclaim maintained over a long period of time. For example, 
the Petitioner has not offered evidence sufficient to show that he has continued to receive recognition 
for his participation as a judge in a manner reflecting sustained national acclaim. 2 He therefore has 
not shown that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized in his field of expertise, as required. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in organizations requiring outstanding achievements of their 
members, the Petitioner provided evidence of membership in the China Television Artists' Association 
(CTAA), including his membership card, the bylaws, and information about the CTAA executive 
committee. However, the Petitioner did not show how membership in the CTAA indicates that he 
has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. He does not provide evidence, for example, to show 
how his membership in CT AA sets him apart from others in the field of television production or 
direction such that his membership is consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence demonstrating that he has received sustained national or international 
acclaim for his CTAA membership. 
With respect to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, we first note that the record includes 
inconsistent documentation related to the companies for which the Petitioner worked and his role at 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that in 
determining whether the petitioner has enjoyed "sustained" national or international acclaim, the officer should consider 
that such acclaim must be maintained. and referencing Black's Law Dictionary's (11th ed. 2019), definition of sustain as 
"to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in making ( an effort) over a long period of 
time.") 
4 
these companies. For example, with his initial filing, the Petitioner provided a document titled 
"Certificate of Critical Role" fro vice president ofl I 
's information sheet from the China TV Production ~---~ 
Industry Associa~) website and his CTPIA member biography identifying him as president q I indicates tha~~----~lwas established in 2010 and that the Petitioner 
has been serving as s president since August 2010. 
In contrast, with his response to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner submitted a 
"Certificate of Critical Role" fro vice resident of ~~-----~--------~ ~----------------------' ~-----~ s organization chart, the 
entity's CTPIA information sheet, and the Petitioner's CTPIA member introduction identifying him 
as a producer and president of1 I The record also includes documentation indicating 
thatl lwas founded in August 2010. In other words, the record contains two 
"Certificates of Critical Role" issued by two different companies, by two different individuals serving 
as the vice presidents, and identifying the Petitioner in different roles. The Petitioner must resolve 
these inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth 
lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner does not explain the 
relationship betwee~ I andl I, or otherwise offer documentation to resolve 
these inconsistencies in a manner allowing us to determine the roles he played for either entity. Even 
were we to view this evidence in the most favorable light and conclude that the Petitioner performed 
work for both of these companies simultaneously, he does not offer evidence sufficient to establish 
that his roles for them have garnered national or international acclaim in the field consistent with one 
who is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Regarding the Petitioner's role as a producer forl i,I I describes the Petitioner's 
duties as participating in "the investment, production, and distribution" of a number of television 
programs. On the other hand, as a producer fotj 11 I notes that the Petitioner 
led a team to develop a "precise calculation and estimation of the ro · ect cost and cycle" forl I I I and "successfully met the ~udget" for each of productions. Although 
the certificates prepared b~ I and~---~ provide etai e examp es of how the Petitioner's 
work benefits their respective companies, these documents do not discuss how the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim for this work. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's role as president ofl ll I describes the Petitioner's 
responsibilities as "developing and implementing the company's overall strategy and annual business 
plan" and "establishing and improving the company's management system and organizational 
structure." I I similarly describes the Petitioner's role asl l's president as 
being responsible for "taking charge of the company's daily operation and management" and 
"achieving company's management objectives and development goals." However, these certificates 
do not discuss whether these duties have garnered the Petitioner national or international acclaim 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he drew significant attention from the 
field for duties performed in his roles as producer for and president of eithe~ I orD I ~ for these roles, or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
5 
The record also includes a letter of recommendation from a film and television art 
director who indicates in his letter that he will work with the Petitioner o '--.,...-------,------=---' In his 
letter) I describes the Petitioner as a producer who considers "the creation cycle and production 
cost ... from the perspective of improving the artistic quality of the work" and notes that the Petitioner 
"has successfully produced and broadcasted"I ll I also states thatl I 
.__ ____ ..... I "received good ratings and reputation" and "accumulated a lot of fans, which has also 
been reco nized b the industry" and notes that the series has received man awards including the 
25th Award for Outstandin iven to and the 27th 
Upon review, the record corroborates these statements and shows that this award is granted to 
1 · · production teams. However, the record also shows that I I and~ 
ere among many television programs receiving these awards in their respective ye~ 
not differentiate between the Petitioner's work and that of the other television program 
awardees. In addition, the Petitioner does not provide evidence showing how the receipt of awards 
given to multiple shows sets him apart from that of other producers. Without evidence setting the 
Petitioner's work as a producer apart from that of others, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate 
that he is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
c= hmber stjtes that I lwas awarded the 25th I I Award for ~ .... ____ _._ and the 27th I IA ward for Best I I The record lacks 
evidence demonstrating that these awards are conferred on television production teams, or otherwise 
showing how awards granted for I I and fo~ I reflect the Petitioner's sustained 
acclaim in the field of television production. 
FinallyJ !indicates thaJ I was awarded the 30th! I Award (2013-
2015) for Outstanding! I However, the record contains inconsistent evidence wij regardl 
to this award. With his initial petition, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that 
received this award; with his response to the Director's RFE he offered evidence demonstrating 
'----~--~ ..... was this award's recipient. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in 
the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92. Without evidence resolving this inconsistency, we cannot determine if: asl !attests, 
the Petitioner received this award for his role as producer orl I reflecting his sustained 
national or international acclaim in his field. 
µa].ly, regarding the commercial success criterion, the Petitioner provides a letter from 
L__J financial director of.__ ______ __. certifying the commercial value ofL_ __ .r-----, 
series, a printout from The World of Chinese website rankin as one of the D television shows of 201 7 broadcast ratin s for an .__ ______ _. and a 
discussion of "click rates" for In his letter~--~ includes DVD sales figures 
reflecting the commercial success o .__ _____ _.and the television ratings demonstrate that this 
program has been widely viewed. Accordingly the record reflects tha~ ]has achieved 
some degree of commercial success. 
6 
However, the Petitioner does not offer evidence demonstrating that he has been recognized in the field 
for this success. For example, althougtj I attributes the high quality o~ Ito the 
Petitioner in his role as "president of our company and Executive Producer" of the series and asserts 
that the program has "achieved good social and economic benefits and commercial returns with high 
ratings, high reputation and high popularity," he does not explain how the Petitioner has been 
recognized in the field for these achievements or has otherwise garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim for them. See 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3). Further, the Petitioner does not offer 
evidence showing how this television program's commercial success sets him apart from that of the 
success of other programs, and therefore other producers in his field of endeavor. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the classification sought. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director erred in concluding that 
he was not coming to work in his area of extraordinary ability. However, for the reasons discussed 
above, the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act. As such we need not determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(a)(ii) of the Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16151379 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 07, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher focusing on environmental and chemical/petroleum engineering, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We initially summarily dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, but subsequently 
reopened it on service motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in environmental engineering fromc=]university in 2017, and at the 
time of filing was employed in the oil and gas industry as a research engineer focusing on flow 
assurance and water treatment. He indicates that he intends to continue pursuing research in these 
areas in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and service as a judge 
of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary 
criterion relating to original contributions of major significance to the field, and that the Director 
mischaracterized or ignored much of the evidence submitted in support of that criterion. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusions regarding the two 
criteria he found the Petitioner to have met, as there is ample evidence in the record of the Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles and service as a peer reviewer for scientific journals. 
Regarding the third criteria claimed by the Petitioner, the Director's decision drew unsupported 
conclusions from the evidence of the Petitioner's contributions to his field and applied them 
inappropriately in the analysis. However, upon de nova review of the evidence, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets that criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
2 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he or she made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Visinscaia 
at 134. 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner's contributions to his field fall into three main areas of 
research in the field of environmental and chemical/petroleum engineering. The first area concerns 
his development of an irrigation water management model while a student atl I University. I lofl I University submitted a reference letter on the Petitioner's 
behalf: indicating that he served as his undergraduate research advisor.1 He describes the Petitioner's 
work in detail, and states that the Petitioner applied the model he developed to an arid region in China 
and reported his results in a paper published in Agricultural Water Management in 2013. I I 
Onotes that one of the papers which cite to this article tested the effectiveness of another irrigation 
model against the Petitioner's, showing that it served as a benchmark for future developments. 
Another reference letter which describes this research was submitted byl I of .... l ___ __. 
University of Science and Technology. Although he does not indicate how he became familiar with 
the Petitioner's work, he refers to another group of researchers who also compared the Petitioner's 
irrigation model to their own, and indicates that the Petitioner's published research had been cited on 
246 occasions at the time his letter was written. However, neither he no~ I describe how 
the performance of the Petitioner's model compared to that of other researchers, or the extent to which 
it influenced the development of these subsequent models. In additionJ ldoes not explain the 
relevance of the number of citations to the entirety of the Petitioner's published work as a measure of 
the contribution made by this specific research. 
The Petitioner also submitted several articles which cite to his paper in Agricultural Water 
Management. Some of these articles consider this paper as one of several employing various methods 
to model the management of irrigation. For example, an article in published in Journal of Hydrology 
in 2019 lists the Petitioner's as one of several "mathematical programming approaches" applied to 
water resource management, and does not single it out as particularly impactful. Similarly, a 2017 
paper in Agricultural Water Management cites the Petitioner's paper as an example of the use of 
,__ ______ __. programming, before going on to apply a different model. Another paper 
published in the same journal and year lists the Petitioner's as one of four "catchment water allocation 
tools." And a paper published in Energy Procedia in 2019 cites the Petitioner's paper and another in 
explaining the terms of a mathematical formula. This evidence shows that the Petitioner's approach 
and methods have served as a basis for comparison for other researchers, but does not establish that it 
stood out from similar research in terms of its significance to the field or was ultimately adopted and 
implemented on a widespread basis. 
A second focus of the Petitioner's research involved his contributions to a software product developed 
by th Universit and used b consortium members in the 
oil and gas industry. The Director of th .__ _ _. ~--------- wrote to confirm that the 
1 We have thoroughly reviewed all of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, including those not specifically 
mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Petitioner's work "improved upon the conventionail I model," and was incorporated 
into the I I software as "a set of compatible viral coefficients" which allowed it to 
be applicable to a wider range o~ I conditions. I I goes on to 
state thatL~"is employed by over 40 major oil and gas exploration and production companies ... " to 
"control and manage scale issues and save millions and millions of dollars every year." While this 
letter indicates that the Petitioner's work has been implemented in the oil and gas industry, I I I I does not state whether its inclusion in~ directly led to increased usage of this software, 
which had been previously developed by thec=J and was already in use by consortium members in 
the industry. 
The Petitioner's work in this as ect of his career also led to ublications in scientific journals and 
presentations at conferences,__ ___ ---.-----~----~----.--~iversity in the United Kingdom 
discusses the Petitioner's research in theL-_ _,-------"l--__Jcrystallization, and explains the 
limitations of previous models based upon~----~ He states that he "referenced [the 
Petitioner's] assertion of the importance of selecting the most accurate equilibrium constants" in his 
own work, and notes that his research "helped us complete our study and advanced the theoretical 
understanding ofl l of the whole industry." Although this letter confirms that this work 
contributed to the field of environmental and chemical engineering, and particularly to the D 
I I niche within that field, it does not show that it stood out from advances made by others in 
the field as being of major significance. 
Another researcher who cited to the Petitioner's research regardin~ I is 
.__ ________ ........,who writes that he works as a I lengineer in the oil and gas 
industry. He indicates that the Petitioner "substantially improved thel I model," and that 
he and his colleagues used the Petitioner's methods and expanded upon them "to look at ways of 
developing a more reliable tool for P.redictin~ , I" Although he goes on to 
state that the Petitioner's "im rove odel has become the new industry-wide standard, where 
it is known as the~-----~ this statement contradicts! I's letter which 
indicates that the Petitioner's work was incorporated into D which was already widely used in the 
industry. Further, while both of these letters confirm that other researchers have built upon the 
Petitioner's work, and provide details about how it has impacted their own research to some extent, 
they do not indicate that it has remarkably impacted the environmental and chemical engineering field. 
The record also includes other evidence of citation to the Petitioner's work in .... l _____ _.l This 
includes partial copies of several articles which cite to the Petitioner's work. One such paper was 
presented at the 20190ntemational Conference! I Chemistry, and cites three papers co­
authored by the Petitioner. The authors use the Petitioner and his colleagues at 9university as 
examples of "several researchers" generating '----=---.---~andl conditions to 
develop improved! I models, but they critique this work by noting that the full details of 
experimental methods are not disclosed. In addition, despite the Petitioner's papers comprising three 
of the six articles cited in this paper, the partial copy of this paper submitted does not demonstrate that 
the authors relied upon his work to support their own or reach conclusions. 
Another example of an article in the record which cites the Petitioner's published research in this niche 
was published in the Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering in 2019. Here the authors indicate 
that the Petitioner and his colleagues are among "many researchers [who] identify! las 
4 
being one of the main driving forces fo~~-------~t' and use data from one of their papers 
to perform a simulation. 
These and the other papers submitted show that other researchers have referred to and built upon the 
Petitioner's published research i~ I prediction and prevention. While they offer deeper 
insight into the impact of the Petitioner's work beyond simple citation figures and statistics, these 
examples do not show that his work was unusually or remarkably influential on other researchers or 
otherwise rose to the level of major significance. 
Regarding citation figures and statistics, on appeal the Petitioner asserts that the Director was not 
justified in considering figures from his Google Scholar profile as diminished in probability, and did 
not give consideration to statistics from Microsoft Academic and Clarivate Analytics. Although the 
Petitioner acknowledges that the article published in Scientometrics in 2014, which he submitted in 
response to the Director's RFE, states that citation figures from Google Scholar should not be used for 
bibliometric analysis due to "numerous deficiencies for research evaluation," he nevertheless defends 
his reliance on the analysis from Microsoft Academic which is based upon those figures. That report 
indicates that the Petitioner's "citation percentile" and "publication percentile" are both above 99%, 
but does not explain the methodology used to arrive at these figures or their meaning. We also note 
that the portion of the report labelled "areas of research" includes systems engineering and "natural 
resource economics," subjects which are not clearly related to the Petitioner's specific research, but 
does not include chemical engineering, petroleum engineering o~ I In addition, the 
Petitioner does not explain how this report, which considers citations to all of his work, is relevant to 
the consideration of specific research contributions he has made in niches such as irrigation water 
management and k prediction and prevention. For all of these reasons, we do not find 
the report from Microsoft Academic to be relevant to the issue of whether the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance to his field, whether in this aspect of his work or in the 
others considered in this decision. 
Turning to the evidence from Clarivate Analytics, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing 
percentile rankings for citations to papers published in several research fields in specific years as of 
2019. He highlights the figures in the "Environment/Ecology" field, and the citation figures in the 
10th percentile for the years 2013, 2015, and 2017. We note that the Scientometrics article indicates 
that the relative citation rates given by Thomson Reuters (now Clarivate Analytics) are based upon 
citation figures from its own database, the Web of Science. However, the record does not include 
complete citation figures for each of the Petitioner's published works from the Web of Science, only 
a summary of the total citations from 14 unidentified articles published by the Petitioner. Since the 
complete citation figures in the record from Google Scholar cannot be reliably compared to the relative 
citation rates in the record, this evidence does not show that the number of citations to the Petitioner's 
research are within any particular percentile within his field, or that they indicate that his published 
work remarkably impacted or influenced the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted other evidence regarding this aspect of his research in response to the 
Director's RFE. This included emails from other researchers seeking assistance in applying the model 
developed in part by the Petitioner. For example, an email from researchers at the University of I ltd I states that his research "onl I has been of great 
help to us," and includes an email from him to the Petitioner seeking assistance in answering the 
5 
researchers' questions about his model. Another email sent directly to the Petitioner from the 
representative of a company developing '---~-------' seeks a meeting with him regarding 
"technology gaps" in this area. These emails show that the Petitioner is considered to be an expert in I !prediction and prevention, and also confirm some interest in tools which he developed 
or improved upon from researchers in academia and industry. But these examples, when considered 
with the other evidence regarding the Petitioner's contributions relating tol I prediction 
and prevention, are insufficient to establish that his contributions were of major significance to the 
field of environmental and chemical engineering. 
The third aspect of the Petitioner's research which he asserts is an original contribution of major 
significance concerns two software modules he helped to develop to reduce the amount of freshwater 
needed td I in oil wells. The record includes a reference letter froml I 
a principal investi ator atl I where the Petitioner completed a three-month graduate research 
internship. explains that the Petitioner provided "invaluable contributions" to a project 
focused on "optimizino--___ __,_ontrol in thel t She explains that he developed one 
software module, the Monitor Module, and helped to develop a theoretical model called thel I 
Module, both of which allow the company to determine the amount of freshwater necessary to prevent I ~ I !further states that the use of these models greatly reduced water usage and 
has savedl !millions of dollars, and that the project was nominated for a company award and 
resulted in a conference paper. 
While this letter demonstrates thatl I implemented the Petitioner's work for this project, the 
record does not include evidence showing that either the software modules generated interest beyond 
the company to the broader oil and gas industry, or otherwise constituted a contribution of major 
significance in the field of environmental anr chemical engjneerin,. We note that the reference letters 
fror land! I of._ ________ __,_ also mention the Petitioner's work 
for I on this project, but neither of them indicate that they have first-hand knowledge of the 
project or the software modules developed. In addition, althoug~ I indicates that this paper 
was selected as a keynote talk for the conference, the record does not show that it has been frequently 
cited by other researchers in their own published work. 
After review of the evidence and for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
6 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11211975 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 07, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[ n] media management expert, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a media management expert residing inl..__~__.----"-'A=t--=t=h-=-e--=t=im=-=-e--=o=f--'f=il=in=g=,'-'h=e=---'-w'"""a=s'""'a"'-, 
general manager forl I and co-founder of thel.__ ____________ ____.l 
I 1. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitionerhadnotmetany of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiaiy 
criteria relating to judging, original contributions, leading or critical role, and salary. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has established that he meets only one of 
the ten criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
Evidence of the alien's participation. either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied .field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion in part through his service as a judge forthd I DA ward and submits evidence, such as documentation aboutthe award, his invitation to participate 
as a judge of it, and confirmation that he completed his duties in that capacity. The documentation 
describes thel I Award as "an industrial award for outstanding technology reports" whose 
purpose is "to find and encourage in-depth reports" and to "help outstanding technology news content 
creators." This is sufficient to demonstrate that the award is more likely than not offered to others in 
the same or allied field of media management, the area of specialization for which the Petitioner seeks 
classification. The Petitioner's invitation to judge the award and confirmation demonstrate that he 
2 
completed his duties as a judge for this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that he 
meets this criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary in this matter.1 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the petitioner must establish both that he played a leading or critical 
role, and that the organization or establishment for which he played that role is recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation. If in a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is ( or was) a 
leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is (or was), in fact, 
leading.2 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not met this criterion as evidence in the 
record did not clearly distinguish between the multiple roles the Petitioner played in each company in 
a manner sufficient to establish that these roles were, in fact, leading. For the reasons discussed 
below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established his eligibility for this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a leading role forl I as a management 
committee member and general manager. To establish this, he provides an orrnizational chait 
identifying him as general manager, one of six positions reporting directly to the I 
management committee, and indicating that he is responsible for advertising, marketing, the sales 
agency, and publication. The organization chart further shows that the Petitioner is a member of this 
management committee. The Petitioner further submits a translated document titled "Economic 
Responsibility Audit Repmi" describinr his duties as general manager forl I as being 
"fully responsible forl :s advertising, operation, and management." This is sufficient 
to show the Petitioner's leading role forl I 
However, the regulation also requires that the Petitioner submit evidence establishingthat~I --~ 
I I has a distinguished re utation. To do so the Petitioner submits articles from the New York 
Times, an aiiicle fro .com and a 2015 Foreiczn Po lie aiiicle. TheForeionPolic 
aiiicle states that althou h 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
benefit sought have been satisfied from the time of filing continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). Here the Petitioner provides evidence indicating that although! I may 
have enjoyed a distinguished reputation in the past, it does not continue to do so at present. Without 
evidence demonstrating thatl I cunently holds a distinguished reputation, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has satisfied this eligibility requirement continuing through 
adjudication, as required. 
With regard to the New York Times articles, although they describd I briefly as I I' they primarily focus on actions atl , I to counter Chinese 
censorship. The Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating how these actionsreflectl I 
1 le a ckooufedge the Petitioner's argument on appeal that he also meets this criterion through his service as a judge of 
the,.__ __ .....,Award. However, as discussed, the Petitioner has already demonstrated he meets this criterion. 
2 Sec 6 USCJS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
___ ...__s _d_is_ti_n....., ished reputation. With respect to the._l ___ ___,lcom article, while it indicates that 
is one of the four most valuable new a ers the article highli hts the success of the ---------''-------~ L_ _____ _,-----1----1 which ow itself 
For example, the~ ___ ....... com article calls 'the most influential 
in China" and notes that the media group had been "selected as one of the '~~----~-~ 
for seven consecutive ears." The Petitioner does not submit evidence showing 
how the success of~ ____________ _.demonstrates thatl I enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. It is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Absent evidence showing that either censorship actions or the reputation of I I demonstrates that~ _____ _,.....enjoys a distinguished 
reputation, the Petitioner has not established that his leading role there meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he serves in a leading role as I I "co-founder 
Publisber!Pmducer Cbainuan :nd CEO" He submits registration information rod I 
I l 3 from the National Enterprise Credit Information 
PubliciT System, a letter of recommendation froml l chief editor ofi l D I s organizational structure, and media aiiicles. The registration documentation lists the 
Petitioner as one of three shareholders in that entity, but the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
establishing the duties he performs in his role as a shareholder. As we note above, a title, with 
matching duties, may help to establish that a role is leading. 4 Absent information on the duties the 
Petitioner performs as a shareholder, this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's role 
is a leading one. 
I ts letter of recommendation describes the Petitioner as having as having "single-
handedly founded the entirel I' but lacks detailed examples of the duties the 
Petitioner performed in a leading role fo~ I Further, I I did not indicate how he 
has personal knowledge of the significance of the Petitioner's leading role or that the author employed 
the Petitioner. Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's 
leading or critical role can be paiiicularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the alien's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. Further, the regulation at 8 CFR 204.S(g)(l) 
provides, in relevant part, that evidence of experience "shall" consist of letters from employers. 
Absent detailed examples of the duties the Petitioner perf. ormed in foundi~formation 
regarding Is personal knowledge of the Petitioner, and evidence that L__jemployed 
the Pefoioner thi~ letter is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's has performed in a leading role 
forl~--· --~J 
With respect to the organizational chart, this document indicates that the Petitioner is I l's 
chairman, CEO, and publisher. However, one news article in the record identifies the Petit/oner as 
I ~s general manager and a second article in the record discusseJ~----~-s return 
to I , I as its chief executive officer. These articles are discrepant with the organizational 
3 The Petitioner indicates in the brief accompanying the underlying petition that this is~I ---~i's registration 
documentation. 
4 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManualF.2(B)(2), supra. 
4 
chart above. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies in the record with independent, objective 
evidencepointingto where the truth lies. MatterofHo, 19 I&NDec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Absent 
evidence reso lvingthe roles performed by the Petitioner fo~._ ____ ___.khe Petitioner has not shown 
that he has served in a leading role for that entity, as asserted. 
In addition, the Petitioner does not submit evidence sufficient to demonstrate I l's 
distinguished reputation. For example, the Petitioner provides photographs and descriptions of 
awards received by magazines owned b~ land media articles regarding these magazines' 
staffing selections. However, this regulation provides that the Petitioner must establish the 
distinguished reputation of the entity for which he claims to serve in a leading or critical role. Here 
as discu1sed above, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion through his leading role for□ I _ Although the evidence regarding these magazines indicates that they enjoy a distinguished 
reputation, the,...,_,,~,~~rn~"='•~n~._,,,es not submit evidence showing how these magazines' reputations 
established tha en· o s a distinguished re utation. The Petitioner also provides evidence 
demonstrating that~----~ invested in but does not submit documentation 
showing how this investment demonstrate ~---~'s distinguished reputation. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not offered evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that he was "unable to compare the evidence of 
earnings" in the record with that of others in the field in paii because "it appears ... bonuses and other 
financial incentives are included" with the Petitioner's salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director is incorrect and that his base annual salary of 
Renminbi (RMB) 1,544,633.50 does not include a bonus or other financial incentives and also 
demonstrates his eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the record includes the Petitioner's certificate 
of income dated August 2019, his tax return dated October 2019, an updated December 2019 tax 
return, and evidence relating to the salaries commanded by others in his field. 
Upon review, we first note that the Petitioner has not established that, at the time of filing, he had 
commanded a salary of RMB 1,544,633.50. Specifically, while the December 2019 income tax return 
submitted by the Petitioner corroborates this higher amount, the tax return includes income earned for 
the tax periods November 2019 and December 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). Without evidence establishing the Petitioner's salary at 
the time of filing, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that this salary is high relative to that of 
others in the field. 
This notwithstanding, we also consider evidence in the record relating to the Petitioner's income prior 
to filing the instant petition. We note that the August 2019 income certificate reflects an income 
totaling RMB 1,517,226 at the time the instant petition was filed. However, as the Director noted in 
his decision, evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate whether this income reflects the 
5 
Petitioner's salary, his salary and a bonus, or other remuneration. Specifically, the August 2019 
income certificate does not indicate whether this total income includes a bonus. The October 2019 
tax return shows that on May 08, 2019, the Petitioner made two tax payments -one payment 
described as "Normal Salaries" and one with a translated description of "One-time Bonus Income for 
the Whole Year," while the December 2019 tax return lists two tax payments on the same date in the 
same amount but attributes these items to payments for "Salary income." The Petitioner must resolve 
these incongruities in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, at 591-92. Absent evidence resolving whether the Petitioner's reported income 
represents his salary, salary or bonus, or some other remuneration, the record is insufficient to establish 
the salary commanded by the Petitioner at the time of filing. 5 As we note above, absent evidence 
establishing the Petitioner's salary at the time of filing, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate 
that the Petitioner commanded a high salary relative to that of others in his field. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the two criteria relating to leading or 
critical role or to high salary. Although he claims to meet an additional criterion on appeal relating to 
original contributions of major significance, we need not reach this issue. We will reserve the issue 
as the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3).6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's extraordinary 
abilityundersection203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. As such, we neednotdeterminewhetherhe is coming 
to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b )(l)(a)(ii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1iheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not suppmi a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perfonning at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinaiy 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
5 We note that the Petitioner has offeredevidenceofsalaries from the U.S. DepartmentofLabor's CareerOneStopwebsite. 
However, these are wage statistics for the U.S., while the Petitioner is employed in China. Nonimrnigrants working in 
different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, ra therthan by 
simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewingwhetherthatsalarywould be considered high in the United 
States. See 6 USC IS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), supra. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); sec also MattcrofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
6 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, I 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15508867 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineering services company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an engineer and data 
scientist, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
While he was a graduate student at the.__ ________________ _,, the Beneficiary 
co-wrote 15 journal articles and conference presentations. After the Beneficia received his doctorate in 
late 2016, the Petitioner hired him as a senior en ineer in its division, working 
with technology related t_.__ _________________ ___.. The Petitioner states that 
the Beneficiary's duties entail "developinr predictive analysis models to improve! I in 
buildings," "designing regression models_ 0 00 l designing complex software and 
hardware applications, and tracking and maintaining assets." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that it also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two claimed 
criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary "is internationally recognized for his round­
breaking developments in the field of risk analysis and probabilistic modeling ~f_or~-~---~ I I rThe Beneficiary] is internationally acclaimed for developing simulatio models that 
allow the designer to evaluate thd I impacts of~--------~" 
The Petitioner quotes at length from three previously submitted letters, and contends that these letters, 
and others in the record, are credible evidence of the Beneficiary's impact on the field, to which the 
Director did not give enough consideration and weight. 
To determine whether a petitioner has met their burden under the preponderance standard, 1 we 
consider not only the quantity, but also the quality (including relevance, probative value, and 
credibility) of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010); Matter o_f E­
M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989). The very submission ofletters signed by third parties does 
not satisfy any evidentiary burden or otherwise create a presumption of eligibility. Rather, we must 
consider the content of the letters. 
Each letter includes one or more paragraphs of highly technical language describing the nature of the 
Beneficiary's work, either preceded or followed by general assessments that the contributions thus 
described are of major significance in the field. Presenting the information in this way, however, does 
not explain why or how the Beneficiary's contributions are of major significance. Explaining the 
significance of the Beneficiary's work is not simply a matter of describing that work. 
Also, in many instances the technical language in the letters is not simply the letter writer's summary of 
the Beneficiary's work. Rather, the letters include lengthy passages copied from the Beneficiary's 
articles, presented without attribution, and sli:htly modified in a manner that obscures their origin. For 
example, a letter signed by the chair of1 _ Is School of I I includes this 
passage: 
The significance of this research is that [the Beneficiary] and his co-authors defined 
and simulated the standard construction details and inferred the uncertainty range ofD 
!effects with the limited in situ data that is 
~av-ai-la_b_l_e ___ R_e_s_u_l-ts_o_f~1-_-----
0-_~ls_i_m_u~lations ~.em ta srnwest caostrnctiao detail 
design will have a relatively large impact on the[ I 
properties of thd I 
The above passage is mostly identical to wording on page 2232 of a 2014 conference paper by the 
Beneficiary, which is in the record: 
We defined and simulated the standard construction details and inferred the uncertainty 
range o~ I effects with the limited in situ 
data that is available. The I I simulations lead to the following 
1 Under this standard. a petitioner must show that what it claims is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. 
3 
conclusions: (1) Construction detail design will have a relatively large impact on the 
I I properties of th~ I ... 
There are other shared passages as well, but the above example serves to demonstrate the point. 
Another letter, signed by an associate professor at~I --~I University, includes this passage: 
[The Beneficiary] modeled the mean profiles ;:::an:.:.:d::........:v-=a::..:ri=ab=-1::.·h::.·tyL....:o:..:f-==::,:;-~---~ 
(presence and actions) se aratel . He used al I distribution to 
generate mean profiles of while the variability will be represented 
by ~---.----.....---~series model, within a framework I I that 
synthesizes.___ __ _. ....,......_.........._..........,d from I I [The Beneficiary] also 
presented the variants of models with res ect to various outcomes of interest 
such a--,__ ________________ __.behavior via a sensitivity analysis. 
Simulation results in the Beneficiary's] work suggest that the approach is able to 1enerate I 
~--------' profiles, requiring minimum additional input from the 
modeler other than standard diversity profiles . 
. . . Another practical contribution of this work is the realization that accurate knowledge 
of the mean profiles is sufficient -that is models do not la a 
significant role in the prediction of L---------r---,_ _______ ____J I lwhere the interaction between the operation o systems and the spatial 
and temporal variabili!YI I is weak. When it comes tol lbehavior, I I should be taken into account, as static profiles are not able to 
produce adequate estimates o~~-----~probabilities close to theLJ peak. 
The above language is taken almost word-for-word from the abstract of a 2016 article by the Beneficiary, 
reproduced in the record: 
In this paper, we model the mean profiles and variabili of (presence 
and actions) separately. We will use a~-------~distribution to generate 
- while the variability will be represented by al~-~ 
series model, within a framework I J I that s nthesizes 
1-----~d-at_a_g ..... athered frortj I We then discuss variants o 
models with res ect to various outcomes of interest such a ~---------~ 
L_ _____ ,.....'-"-"'-'.......,~L.......L.......,.......,.""'"""','·tivity analysis. Results show that our approach is 
abll to geTrate~------~profiles, requiring minimum additional input from 
the modeler other than standard diversity profiles. . . . Such a findin . . . roves 
that accurate knowledge of the mean profiles is sufficientl-'-th....:.a;_;_t_is.:..e...i. _______ .....,.. 
models do not play a significant role in the prediction of L_ ______ ---1----1 
where the interaction between the operation o ~---' 
~s_y_s-te_m_s-an-d-th-e-sp-a-t1-.a-l_a_n_d~temporal variabili7I lis weak. When it comes to ~----~I behaviorJ 1 ~ ...) should be taken into account, as static 
profiles are not able to produce adequate estimates otj !probabilities close 
to thd I peak. 
4 
Nearly verbatim passages from the Beneficiary's own work cannot serve as independent evaluations of 
his work, and have little weight as corroborative evidence of major significance without explanations of 
the significance of such work. 2 This is a significant issue because those letters are central to the 
Petitioner's contentions about the significance of the Beneficiary's contributions. 
The Petitioner also documents citation of the Beneficiary's published work, but the Petitioner has not 
submitted independent data to show how heavily the Beneficiary's work is cited relative to other 
published work in the same area. The record therefore lacks an objective basis for comparison to establish 
the significance of the citation figures. 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary has made original scientific contributions, but has not 
established that those contributions are of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that at the Beneficiary "held a critical role as a Research Assistant 
in the~---------~ Lab." The director of that laboratory describes various projects in 
which the Beneficiary participated and courses that the Beneficiary taught, but does not explain how these 
roles were critical to the lab at the organizational level. Furthermore, the Petitioner submits background 
evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of I I as a whole, and of its School of 
[,--___ ,lbut this evidence is general in nature and does not establish that the I I 
l~--~l'[ai,has a distinguished reputation in its own right. Because reputation is a function of outside 
perception, statements by an official of the lab are not sufficiently independent evidence that the lab has 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted objective evidence to show that the 
Beneficiary performed in a critical role at the institutional level for I I On appeal, the 
Petitioner does not directly address this conclusion. Instead, the Petitioner repeats earlier assertions that I ts l I Lab is an internationally recognized leader" in its field. The 
Petitioner cites no evidence to support this claim except to state that the lab received government research 
grants. The Petitioner does not establish that the awarding of such grants is a sign of distinction in the 
field, rather than the expected result of meritorious grant applications. 
The senior director of Engineering and Development at the Petitioner's I I describes the 
Beneficiary's role there, stating: "As a data scientist ... , [the Beneficiary] performs automation detection 
and diagnosis of1 ~ to drive common approaches tol Ito being more 
predictive through physical models and machine learning." The official cites the Beneficiary's co­
authorship of three patent applications, and states that the Beneficiary developed "a machine learning 
based approach" for data capture that "will potentially save the company three (3) full time employees 
... and will serve as a solid cornerstone to all future digitally delivered service projects." The Petitioner 
2 Other letters use similarly technical language to describe other articles by the Beneficiary, but those articles are not reproduced 
in the record for direct comparison with the letters describing them. As a result, the record does not show whether these letters, 
too, rely heavily on unatttibuted quotations from the Beneficiary's work. 
5 
does not submit an organizational chart or other information to establish the Beneficiary's position within 
the division or the company as a whole. 
With respect to distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submits printouts from the website of thel I I O I division, but that website consists of promotional material intended to persuade prospective 
clients, rather than objective evidence of the division's re utation. On appeal, as above, the Petitioner 
repeats its prior assertion that its "division o is a leadin rovider of automation 
technologies and services for.__ _______________________ ___. The 
Petitioner also quotes extensively from the company official's previously submitted letter, which is not 
independent evidence of the division's reputation. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Beneficiary's activities as a judge of the work of others do not appear to extend beyond routine peer 
review, and the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's published work has had an impact 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. The Beneficiary has made valuable 
contributions atl land then at the petitioning company, but the Petitioner has not shown 
that these contributions have earned recognition that would place the Beneficiary in the small 
percentage at the very top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17323258 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 08, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the chairman and general manager of anl !company, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. Accordingly, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
~ record reflects that the Petitioner is the chairman and general manager o~ L.J, a.__ ______ _. company located inl I China, which he fo~u_n_d-ed-1-.n-1_9_9_8 __ -~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional, major trade publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets all six criteria and contends that the Director improperly rejected, 
disregarded, or overlooked evidence that establishes his eligibility for the requested classification. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that he 
meets the criterion relating to leading and critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He has 
2 
established that he holds the senior leadership role with~--------~ and submitted 
sufficient supporting documentation to establish the company's distinguished reputation in its 
industry. However, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore, he has not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he, rather than his employer, is 
the recipient of prizes or awards that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the awards documented in the record 
are nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in the field. The Director further o bseived 
that some of the awards appeared to provide government grant funding for future research and 
development efforts rather than awarding excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that the evidence he submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) included 
detailed descriptions of the awards and the processes for granting them, and was sufficient to establish 
that all elements of the criterion were satisfied. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that almost all the evidence submitted under this criterion identifies I I rather than the Petitioner, as the named recipient of the awards or prizes. 
Even if we determined that such awards were nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes 
for excellence in the field, only awards received by the Petitioner satisfy the plain language of 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). Nevertheless, we will briefly discuss evidence related to the awards received by the 
Petitioner's employer. 
Many of the documented awards and prizes in the record were granted by the Management Committee 
of the I I High Tech Industrial Development Zone. These awards included monetaty 
incentives or subsidy components that the Director characterized as "research grants." The record 
contains a letter from the office manager for the development zone, which specifically discusses the 
I ~Award" and states thatj I has been "the only enterprise in I ;dustry to win this award." He explains that the award is intended to 
"recognize and award a group of emerging enterprises from the Development Zone ... that have made 
outstanding contributions to the regional economic development." The letter goes on to describe the 
factors considered in granting this award to an enterprise but it ~oes not io~icate that the Pritioner 
himself was the recipient of this or other awards bestowed on~---~-------' by the 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on thereviewof evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 Id. 
3 
1---------'.c!;.H~i=--'T:c...:e::.:;ch Industrial Development Zone. A second letter from the same official discusses 
i...--------..L'...i.l...J,ili J..l,1 <.....l.!..Lf_"H.!....!..!.i!iii,Jh..!......!.T~h Enterprise" and its receipt of'----------~ 
'---------~~-------' awards in both 2015 and 2018, but again does not identify 
the Petitioner as a recipient of these awards. 
Fmiher, we agree with the Director's dete1mination that the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate 
that these awards are nationally or internationally reco ized awards for excellence, as eligibility 
appears to be limited to companies o r in in h High Tech Industrial Development 
Zone. This evidence establishes that.__ ______ ~has consistently received recognition from 
the municipal or regional government for its research and development efforts, innovation and growth 
in the years leading up to the filing of the petition. However, it does not demonstrate that the various 
incentive awards and titles granted byl IHigh Tech Industrial Development Zone tol I I • lvere nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence or thatthey 
were received by the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner also claimed recei t of a First Prize award 
and a.__ ______________ __. Second Prize award in 2015 and 2019, respectively. 
With respect to the 2015 prize, the submitted award ce1iificate identifid I as "winne1)' of 
this prize for the project 
.__ __________________ ___.' A separate list of 2015 's winners acknowledges 
two companies and 15 individuals associated with the project referenced above but does not identify 
the Petitioner or.__ _______ ~ among those named contributors. Similarly, information 
regarding the 2019 second prize project identifies I ~ and several other individuals as main 
contributors but does not name the Petitioner or his company among the acknowledged winners. 
While testimonial evidence indicates that the Petitioner's company contributed to these two award­
winning projects, the evidence does not support a determination that he or the company received the 
resulting awards. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that.__ ________ _. was awarded a certificate as a I I 
,__ ___ ___,~ Well-known Brand Product" by the China Industrial I !Association in 2020, 
but this certificate was not accompanied by evidence regarding the award or the national or 
international recognition associated with it, or evidence that the Petitioner himself was a recognized 
recipient of the award. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted evidence related to awards received by that 
were s onsored or awarded b Henan Daily news a er. These awards included: 
i-----------,_ _____ ____J(2015); and (2) ',......__..,__ __ --,----------------,1 
(2016 and 201 7), awarded jointly by,___ _ _. Daily andL_ ____ ---r------,.1 
In addition, in 2018, the Petitioner was named as a .__ _____ __,_ ____________ ......._ ____ .....__ __ --:....~ 
L.._ __ ____,r------,__ _________ ____J by Henan Daily. A letter from Henan Daily 
journalis ~-----__.briefly describes the selection processes for these awards.I I states 
that each winning company and individual is "a leader in the industry" and thatthe awards are "granted 
in line with various regulations of the provincial government, representing the recognition of the 
provincial government to some extent, while also expressing the public opinion of the readers." 
4 
On appea.l, the Petitioner maintains that the Director impro~rly dilsregrded these awards becam,e 
they were bestowed by a "local publication," notwithstandin s statement that thel I 
Daily is '"the most prestigious and influential newspaper in province." However, as noted 
above,I !explained that consideration for such awards was limited to those companies doing 
business in that province (and their leaders) and represent "recognition of the provincial government." 
Therefore, although the Petitioner established that he was a recipient of the 'I I I I award in 2018, the evidence submitted does not establish that this honor qualifies as a 
nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 3 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he satisfied this criterion because he is the resident of the 
~----------~!Association, the executive vice president of the '-----..----------,., 
Association, and "the Supervisor for The Political and Professional Style,...."-'f:c.,o"""r_t~h"-'=e'-========-. 
Municipal Bureau of Quality and Technical Supervision. Wi;=th""-=-re=s=-:e:..::c;...;;.t-=-to"-----"th=e=-----.------------' 
Association, the Petitioner provided a certificate which names.__ ______ _. as "Executive Vice 
President Unit" for this organization, but it does not mention the Petitioner's name. The Petitioner 
also submitted evidence intended to demonstrate that he is a member and director of the China 
.__ ____ ---,-_..._I_n_d_u_s_try-"---A-.ssociation and a member of the China General Machin9nr Jodustn1 Association Equipment Branch, but the certificates provided reflect thatl I ,-------------' ~---~ ~---~ rather than the Petitioner, is a member of these associations. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that he did not provide evidence that any of these 
associations require outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field and advised that evidence such as the associations' bylaws or 
constitutions could be submitted to document the associations' membership requirements and 
membership approval procedures. 
The Petitioner submitted additional evidence in response to the RFE, including a certification letter 
from the China I I Industry Association. This document confirms tha~ I D has been a member of the association since April 2020, states that "every member company" is "a 
leader in the industry," and indicates that the Petitioner "has been elected by the member companies 
and appointed as the Director of the Association and Deputy Director of the I I 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultirna tely granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
Professional Committee," based on the success of the company he leads and "outstanding 
achievements in the field of 
This evidence does not establish, however, thatthe Chin~ I Industry Association admits 
individual members and that outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international expe1is, in the field are an essential condition for such membership. The certification 
from the association is not sufficiently detailed in explaining the association's general membership 
requirements, or the selection requirements and processes for director and committee leadership 
positions. As noted, the evidence indicates that this association admits "member companies" rather 
than individual members. The record also contains additional background information regarding this 
association which mentions its "500 member companies" but does not indicate that it admits individual 
members or provide further insight into the requirements that apply to company membership or elected 
positions. There is insufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner's elected "director" and 
"deputy director" roles require outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in this field. 
The Petitioner's RFE response included similar evidence related to the China General Machinery 
Industry Association, I I Equipment Branch. He rovided a "Certification" from the 
association's secretary general indicating that.__ ___ ~----..---- ......... ...,-.. been a "member 
company" since March 2020, and stating that the Petitioner "serves as th....__ __ _.of this Association" 
based on his election by "the member companies." The certification briefly discussd I 
I I's reputation in the industry and the Petitioner's leadership of that company, but does not 
indicate that this association admits individual members based on their outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is in this field. Additional introductmy 
information regarding the China General Machinery Industry Association describes its scope (2000 
member companies) and various branches but not does not provide farther insight into its membersrup 
requirements and conditions, nor does it establish that admission for membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 
Association and the The Petitioner provided similar certifications from the I I Association. The certi~fi-c-at-io-n----~--------~ 
Association president indicates that~---------~ is "the~---------~ 
of the association and that the Petitioner, as chairman of the company, has been appointed 
as "th ~--------~ of the association's council and elected as director of a committee 
by the association's member companies. The letter mentions his contributions and reputation in the 
industry, but does not discuss the association's requirements or review processes and procedures for 
company membership, does not mention whether the association admits individual members, and does 
not address the established criteria and processes used to appoint or elect individuals to leadersrup 
positions. As such the Petitioner has not provided the information needed to establish that he has a 
qualifying membership in the I !Association. The certification letter from the 
.__ __________ ___. Association states that the Petitioner was elected by the 60 member 
companies of the organization to serve as'.__ __________ ___. in 2019, but does not offer 
any additional information regarding the association, its membership requirements for individuals (if 
applicable), and its requirements pertaining to elected officers, nor does it provide information as to 
whether outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts are 
an essential condition for membership or elected positions. 
6 
A "letter of certification" from the I I Market Supervision and Administration Bureau 
confirms that the Petitioner was hired as "a supervisor for the political and business ethical operations 
carried out by the bureau," but does not explain how being hired forth is position is equivalentto being 
admitted as a member of an association that requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
condition for membership. Although the bureau's letter states that it assessed potential supervisors 
based on factors such as their "industry representativeness" and "personal, professional and technical 
achievements" among other factors, the evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's 
supervisor role with this bureau satisfies the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the evidence discussed above "explained the requirements for 
membership," but for the reasons explained, this assertion is not persuasive. While the Petitioner 
submitted a brief ce1iification letter from each association in which he claims membership, the 
evidence does not address all elements of the regulation at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and is insufficient 
to demonstrate that he has a qualifying membership in an association that requires its members to have 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. Most or all the 
industry associations in which he claims membership appear to only admit company members. While 
the Petitioner's appointed or elected leadership positions are notable, the evidence does not 
demonstrate the formal requirements or processes related to these elections, and we cannot conclude 
that these roles satisfy the regulatory requirements. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the.field/or which classtfication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The D. irector acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several articles from the newsjaper Henan 
Daily, however, he determined that the articles are primarily aboutl rather than 
about the Petitioner. The Director also found insufficient evidence to establish that Henan Daily, 
based on the circulation figures submitted, is a major trade publication or otherwise qualifies as a 
major media. Finally, the Director observed that the Petitioner provided circulation data for The 
Washington Post and Boston Globe, but emphasized that he did not provide evidence that he had been 
featured in either of these publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "any article about the company, especially since each one 
quotes [the Petitioner], is actually about the [Petitioner], since he is functionally the company." The 
Petitioner emphasizes that he is the company's founder, inventor of its proprietary tech no logy and the 
public face of the company. The Petitioner also maintains that sufficient evidence was submitted to 
establish that Henan Daily qualifies as a major media publication rather than a mere "local 
publication," noting that the circulation statistics for two U.S. metropolitan newspapers with national 
circulation were provided as a basis for comparison. 
In support of his claim thatHenan Daily qualifies as major media, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot 
from the newspaper's website that provides an introduction to the publication, noting that it has a daily 
circulation of 530,000 copies, is "the official newspaper of the Henan Provincial Party Committee of 
the Communist Party of China," and that it "covers all the provinces and cities under the jurisdiction 
7 
ofHenan Province and all counties and districts." A letter fromHenan Daily journalist! I I !describes the newspaper as "the most prestigious and influential newspaper in Henan province 
with the highest circulation, unparalleled prestige, and tremendous social influence." Finally, the 
Petitioner submitted the above-referenced circulation information for The WashingtonPostandBoston 
Globe, noting that both newspapers "are recognized as having significant national distribution" despite 
having lower circulation numbers than HencmDaily. 
To establish thatHenan Daily constitutes major media, the Petitioner would need to provide objective 
evidence demonstrating that its circulation is high compared to the circulation statistics of other daily 
newspapers in the Chinese market. 4 Here, the Petitioner provided the newspaper's self-published daily 
circulation figure without providing any context of where that figure ranks among its peer publications 
in China. Comparisons to the circulation of two U.S. newspapers is considerably less relevant in 
demonstrating how Henan Daily qualifies as major media in China. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that Henan Daily qualifies as major 
media. 
As noted, the Director also determined that the submitted articles are not about the Petitioner and that 
some of them did not identify the author of the published material, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 
We note that several of the submitted articles from Henan Daily are similar in content, discussing the 
history o~ l milestones it has reached, the industry in which it operates, and the 
company's recent financial performance and activities. The earliest of the submitted articles, from 
December 4, 2015, does not identify the author of the article. The article includes one brief mention 
of the Petitioner, identifies him as the company's chairman, and ends with an indirect quote, attributed 
to him, about the company's plans for 2016. The second article, published on June 1, 2016, provides 
similar information regarding the company and its services, identifies the Petitioner as the chairman, 
and includes one quote from him. We note that the Petitioner and his leadership of the company are 
not the focus or subject of either of these articles. A third Hen an Daily article, published on May 31, 
2017, mention~ I. 's major customers, its 2016 financial results, its recent projects, 
and its collaborations with other companies. The only mention of the Petitioner comes in the last 
sentence of the translated article. This sentence a ears to be the caption for a photograph that 
accom anies the article. It states " t he chairman of the Petitioner I I 
[sic],~----------------------------~' As with 
the two preceding articles, we cannot conclude that this article is about the Petitioner. 
Anotherarticle ublishedinHenanDailyonJuly 19,2018,andtitled j I 
~-----------.====<--;;;;is::.....;about the 1 I' award launched by 
the newspaper to commemorat ~--~of entrepreneurship in Henan province. The Petitioner's 
photograph, name, and company affiliation appear in the article, as he was one of 40 entrepreneurs 
selected, but the article does not include any additional information about him and is not about him. 
In addition, this article does not include a byline or otherwise identify the name of the author. 
4 See 6 USCISPolicy Manual,supra, atF.2 appendix. 
8 
The remaining article, published in August 2018 and titled I I identifies the source as H enan Economic Daily, a~p_u_b_l-ic-a-ti_o_n_f __ o_r_w_h_1_· c_h_n_o_a_d_d-it-io_n_a~l 
information has been provided. Accordingly, the evidence does not establish that this article was 
published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. It is similar in content to 
the articles from Hen an Daily, as it discusses the company's history, milestones, performance, recent 
projects and anticipated future activities. This article mentions that the Petitioner founded the company 
in 1998, identifies him as the cmrent chai1man, and includes one quote from him. 
Even if the Petitioner had established that the submitted articles appeared in professional, major trade 
publications or other major media, we agree with the Director's determination that, although he is 
referenced, the articles are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this regulatory criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues that any article abou~ I is about him because he is 
"functionally the company," the aiiicles do not p01iray him in this light or go beyond briefly 
mentioning his name and his position within the company. The Petitioner also maintains that the 
Director's analysis "fails to consider longstanding law about publications in this context, referring to 
Muniv. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995). However, we observe that there is nothing in Muni to 
suggest that an article need only include an individual's name and occupation to be "about" that 
individual, regardless of the context or the remaining content of that article. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In evaluating the criterion, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted five letters of 
reference but determined that the letters "did not conform"to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) 
and therefore "off er no probative value." The Director also referenced evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's patents, noting that a patent alone is insufficient to meet this criterion and that "the 
contribution of the innovation to the field as a whole must be determined by USCIS on a case-by-case 
basis." The Director concluded that there was "no evidence" that the Petitioner's patents had resulted 
in significant commercial sales or had an impact on researchers in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the five expert letters that the Director disregarded were 
specifically submitted to explain the significance of the patents and his original contributions to the 
field. The Petitioner argues that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) applies to experience letters 
submitted in support of employment-based immigrant petitions in which an individual is required to 
document prior work experience and does not apply to letters submitted to establish that an individual 
has made original contributions of major significance consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We agree that the Director did not have a valid basis for disregarding the letters of reference submitted 
in support of this criterion and will consider this evidence along with evidence related to patents issued 
9 
to.__ ________ __,, which list the Petitioner as an inventor. The Petitioner's initial evidence 
include a chart listing 42 patents, including their application/patent number, invention title, patent 
type, date of application and date of authorization. 5 The evidence shows that the utility model patents 
list the Petitioner as inventor and have been assigned to~--------~ or related subsidiary 
cornpames. 
The Petitioner provided a reference letter fro whq states tbat be is the Director and 
Chief Physician of th o inl I I I explains 
the medical use o and states that thel I 
produced b ,__ ______ _."are essential to the medical industry in thel : , I' noting 
that the cornpan is the rovince's lar est roducer o The Petitioner also submitted 
an article titled ' published by the website of a U.S. 
corn an in the.__ _______ __. While we do not doubt the medical field's reliance on~ 
~..---~~----..___,' s letter does not explain how~------~ s supply of industry-standard L_J 
t medical facilities amounts to an "original contribution" in the field, or how the company's 
products have impacted the field outside of the province. He also does not refer to any of 
~
1 t_h_p_a-
1t_e_n-ts~that list the Petitioner as inventor or the significance of any of those patents in the I I 
field. The fact that the Petitioner's company supplies cornrnonl I products for which 
there is an acknowledged demand is not sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitio,µ............,...,_,,,_--'-'-'-'""-'- ........ ""'--"L.l.><""""' ......... ..,,,_,_.~--......,....-____,...,.,..who states that he is the Deputy Technical 
Director fo and a member of several technical committees relating to 1he 
I I industry, including storage and transportation. In his letter he raises the 
Petitioner as a leader in thd I field, provides a list of industries in whic.1....r-----,____J 
Corn an 'sQroducts are used, and emphasizes that many important industries in and 
the rovince "rely on [ the Petitioner's] proprietary production and distribution processes." 
,___~also credits the Petitioner with personally organizing research and development projects "that 
have directly led to creation of critical devices," noting that such technologies are "now routinely used 
in the production and distribution of essential~---------~-~ He lists eight 
technologies or devices which appear to correspond to devices included on the submitted utility model 
patent list. However, he does not further describe or discuss these contributions ortheiruses or specify 
how they have had an impact or influence on the overall field. His general assertion that these devices 
are "routinely used" in the field is insufficient to establish their major significance. 
The Petition.r's initial evidence inrlud~d a letter from! I a professor at thel I 
University o1~. ---------~Jand Director of the I I Research 
Council. He does not state that he has any expertise or background in the Petitioner's field or indicate 
on what basis he is able to discuss the Petitioner's original contributions in the 
I !field.I I provides general information abou~ l._an_d_s_t-at_e_s -th_a_t t-h-el=='I 
produced by the company "is used in numerous industries" and "is essential to companies throughout 
I I because "they need I l[the company] produces to operate." He also discusses the 
company's research and development efforts, noting that "the company has multiple laboratories 
where experts design new techniques to make the use otl O 1 J by their client companies far 
5 The chart lists a total of 42 applications filed, of which 41 are identified as being of the "utility model" type and one i<; 
identified as an "inventorpatent." At the time the chart was prepared, 10 of the applications had not yet been approved. 
more efficient." Lastly, he credits the Petitioner with creating "a newl . !technology for the glass 
industry" that "increases discharge amounts by I 0-3 0%, reducing quality problems and decreasing the 
amount of bubbles in the glass." He does not further discuss this technology, indicate whether it is 
patented or how it is otherwise considered to be original, or address its importance and how it has 
already had an impact or influence of major significance in the industry. 
The fourth letter of reference was provided b~ la professor at the I I I I who states that he is "a recognized expert in air ollution control, catalysis and porous 
materials." He describes the Petitioner as '·a leader in the develo ment" and raises his 
commitment to research and development of proprietary technology at.___-,------~~----,., 
indicates that the Petitioner's specific achievements include "creation of.__ ____ ....------, 
technologies and D displacement and storage technologies in cooperation with the I I and the I lfield." He emphasizes that, base'-d-on_t_h-ei ..... r 
"groundbreaking" nature, these and other projects were recognized through receipt ofFirst and Second 
prizes fotj 00 0 I in thel I province. However, as discussed above, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner or his company received these awards. Further, although 
the Petitioner emphasizes that the reference letters provide explain how his patents qualify as original 
contributions of major significanceJ l's letter does not make any specific references to the 
Petitioner's patents. 
The final letter submitted in su ort of this criterion is from who states that he has 
served as the President of th..,_ _____ -,_ ____________ ~ _______ __, 
and as Senior Ex ert for the described as "the world's largest 
states th4tl 7 has workeLd_w-it~=--=--=-~---~,_on_"...Ja 
._s_u_c_c_e-ss_f_u:_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_~-=_-=_-=_-:_-:_-=_~~-s-y-st__,em for th d .... _____ ~f"rield that will achieve long-te1m 
I lonservation an ~--~reduction." He also states that the Petitioner has created "exciting 
engineering application services for th9 I inqustrv" He desclribes one of these applicationsj 
noting that the Petitioner has introduced the use of I . to neutralize the ..,.I, ___ ____._ 
traditiona11¥ relied on strong acids to treat wastewater. ~--~explains tha~ I wastewater noting that these industrie; have 
I ]and through an automatic operation injects the wastewater to reduce itsl " He 
describes the technique as "an elegant solution" that is ultimately safer and more cost-effective than 
using strong acids, and notes that this technology "is rapidly replacing the conventional acid 
treatment." However, he does not specify whether the technique was created by the Petitioner or if he 
was simply the first to introduce it in his region, nor does he further elaborate on how widespread or 
influential the technique has become. 
The Petitioner maintains that "many of the concepts that [he] introduced are now industry standards 
in the industrial! I in China," but neither the letters discussed above nor the list of patents held 
b~ I provide sufficient support for this assertion regarding the widespread ~ct of his original work. The record shows that the Petitioner has built a successfuII I 
L__J company that appears to serve as a supp lier for many industries inl._ _ ____.l province, and that he 
has been credited with developing some of the company's proprietarytechnology. However, notevety 
patented device or technique is an original contribution of major significance within the meaning of 
this criterion. Here, the patents, letters and other supporting evidence indicate that the Petitioner's 
company has been recognized for its innovation and steady growth, but are not sufficient to 
11 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions have been widely implemented or otherwise had a 
major impact on the industry in which the company operates. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 The letters that praised the 
Petitioner for his professional achievements withl l but do not demonstrate their 
major significance in the field. The plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in 
the field" requires evidence ofan impact beyond one's employerand clients or customers. See Vis inscaia 
v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. The Petitioner provided 
an accountant-prepared "income certificate" which provides recent financial figures including his 
personal annual salary (including salary, bonus and allowances), his dividend income earned as a result 
of his partial ownership ofi I, his income from "personal real estate disposition," 
and financial information regarding the company's sales, costs, profits and undistributed profits. In 
an accompanying letter, the Petitioner emphasized that, although he takes a "nominal salary," his 
equity irl I equates to over $2 million. 
The Petitioner did not submit comparative evidence to demonstrate that his salary is high, or that his 
total remuneration is significantly high, in comparison to that of others employed in his occupation 
and geographic area. 7 Rather, he provided evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor-sponsored 
CareerOneStopwebsite (www.careeronestop.org), indicating that a "high" salary for a chief executive 
in the United States is "$208,000+" annually. Although the Petitioner relies on this document as 
evidence that his total earnings are high, the base salaries of U.S. executives do not provide an 
appropriate comparison for the total remuneration of a chief executive and shareholder who resides 
and works inl I China. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter froml l's chief financial officer, who 
provides inf mmation regarding the percentage of company shares owned by the Petitioner (both 
individually and jointly with his family) and notes that he was entitled to significant undistributed 
profits which he instead opted to reserve for the future operation of the company. In his brief, the 
Petitioner notes that he was entitled to receive undistributed profits of over $1.5 million in 201 7, $1.75 
million in 2018, and $2.1 million in 2019. However, the record continues to lack comparative salaty 
and total remuneration data specific to the Petitioner's occupation and geographic location. Even if 
6 See 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2 appendix 
7 Id. (stating that persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable 
evidence in that country, ra therthan by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salmy 
would be considered high in the United States). 
12 
the Petitioner demonstrated that he received income in the stated amounts, we would still require a 
basis to compare his total remuneration to that of other executives in China. 
Without providing a proper basis for comparison of his salary and/or total remuneration in relation to 
others in China, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services. Accordingly, he did not demonstrate that he satisfies this 
criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has established that he meets only one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification. As this dete1mination is dis positive of the appeal, we reserve and 
will not address the Director's separate determination that he did not demonstrate that he seeks to enter 
the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, as required by section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5).8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
g Sec INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessaiyto the results they reach). 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16715565 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a make-up artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinaiy ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. The Director 
affirmed his decision on motion, and we dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The Petitioner 
requests that we reopen the matter sua sponte and order the approval of her immigrant petition. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records reflect that the Petitioner in this matter is 
also the beneficiary of an approved Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. USCIS approved the 
Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, and she was 
granted conditional permanent residence on February 2, 2021, subsequent to filing the instant motion. 
Because the Petitioner is now a permanent resident, further pursuit of this matter would be moot 
Accordingly , we will dismiss the combined motions. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER : The motion to reconsider is dismissed . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17586777 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of individuals at the top 
of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner works as a television host in Venezuela and intends to work in 
a similar capacity in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could satisfy as many as 
six of these criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards or prizes, published materials in major media, and judging the work of others in an 
allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation and 
commercial success in the performing arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (x).1 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director was 
required to conduct a final merits determination. In a final merits detennination, the Director must 
examine and weigh all of the evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has the high 
level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Specifically, the Director 
must review the totality of the evidence, regardless of whether certain evidence was found to be 
sufficient to meet one of the evidentiary criteria, to dete1mine whether the Petitioner has sustained 
1 The record reflects thatthe Petitioner also initially claimed that he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3 )(vii), 
which requires evidence that he has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Director did not address 
this criterion in the final decision. 
2 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
analysis is limited to just a few sentences. We agree with that assertion as the decision contains little 
discussion of the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied the awards, published material, and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), and (iv), the evidence related to these three criteria is barely mentioned or weighed in the final 
merits discussion or elsewhere in the decision. In fact, the Director's analysis of this evidence is 
contained in a single sentence: "The petitioner has two regional awards, articles that date back to 2010 
and while USCIS will concede[] that judging thel I pageant could be considered an 
allied field, it does not establish that the petitioner is someone who has reached the top of their field." 
We note that the Director had already determined that the Petitioner's twol IA wards 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires that he demonstrate his receipt of 
nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes. The Director's subsequent characterization 
of these awards as "regional awards," was contradictoryto this determination and not explained. With 
respect to the published materials in the record, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted evidence 
that he consistently received major media coverage between 2009 and 2019 and the Director failed to 
explain why such evidence would not contribute to a finding that he enjoyed sustained national 
acclaim. The Petitioner states that the Director's conclusion appears to be based, in large part, on the 
nature of his judging activities rather than on an analysis of the evidence as a whole. 
The Director further stated, without further reference to the facts of this case, that "[t]o be considered 
an alien of extraordinary ability, the petitioner is compared to those in his field as a whole, including 
those with more prestigious accomplishments, not solely those in his city or country." The Petitioner 
asserts that the Director applied a standard that would erroneously exclude an individual who enjoys 
national acclaim ( as opposed to international acclaim) from eligibility for this classification. We agree 
that the Director did not provide an adequate explanation for this statement, which appears to 
inaccurately equate national acclaim with city-wide acclaim. Nor did he explain his reasoning as to 
why the evidence here did not support a finding that the Petitioner compares favorably with those in 
his field as a whole. 
The Director's brief final merits discussion concludes with a determination that "the petitioner has not 
established that he has contributed to his field as a whole in some remarkable way resulting in 
sustained acclaim." The Director appears to be referring to elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence of an individual's original contributions of major 
significance in their field. The record reflects thatthe Petitioner did not claim to satisfy this evidentiary 
criterion. Because he neither claimed nor submitted evidence in support of that criterion, it was 
inappropriate to analyze whether the Petitioner has made "remarkable" contributions in his field and 
to weigh the lack of such evidence as a negative factor in determining eligibility. 
In addition to not fully weighing the evidence submitted in support of the three regulatory criteria that 
the Petitioner satisfied, the Director's final merits discussion disregarded evidence that the Petitioner 
3 
had provided in support of three additional criteria, as well as evidence he had submitted in support of 
his claim that he enjoys sustained national acclaim as a television host in Venezuela. Such evidence 
related to the display, leading or critical roles, and commercial success criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii) and (x). Because the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final 
merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he is an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643781 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The 
Petitioner filed a motion to reopen that decision, submitting new evidence in support of his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. He now appeals the Director's dismissal of the motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We note that in reviewing the Petitioner 's motion to reopen, the Director applied the standard at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c) , 
which is applicable to motions before the Board of Immigration Appeals and requires that evidence accompanying the 
motion "was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing." The applicable 
regulation concerning motions to reopen in this case is 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Unlike the Board regulation , we do not 
require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret "new 
facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the 
proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in I I since at least 2003, and the record shows that he has 
participated in national and international events, including thel !World Championships in 
~-~Ion several occasions. He also submitted evidence of his work as a trainer for other athletes, 
and his certification as a Level I Coach with~----~ He indicates that he intends to continue 
to compete inl I in the United States as well as coach other athletes in the sport. 
A. Major, Internationally Recognized Award 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
2 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
The Petitioner asserted with his response to the second request for evidence (RFE) sent by the Director 
that a notification he received from thel I organization which congratulates him on becoming a 
"Gold~------~Athlete" for 2013 qualifies as a major, internationally recognized award. 
The notification, which is similar to copies of emails he received for subsequent years for "Silver 
~------~Athlete," indicates that this acknowledges his ranking in the top 1 % in the world 
in his age group. We note that the record also includes copies of certificates confirming his "Silver" 
status in other years, but does not include a certificate confirming his "Gold" status. The record also 
includes information about thel I organization and its I I program. 
In his motion decision, the Director did not directly address new evidence submitted by the Petitioner, 
but referenced the previously submitted message regarding his gold I I program status and 
evidence regarding events which took place after the filing of the petition. Although we agree that per 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ), the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and coTinuing trough 
adjudication, the new evidence provided background information regarding the World 
Championship which existed for decades prior to the filing of this petition. More importantly, 
however, this evidence did not mention the I I program, or lend additional support to the 
Petitioner's claim that the certificates verifying his gold and silver status qualify al major,
1 internationally recognized awards. In particular, a news article posted to the CNN website on D 2019 discusses the winners of that year's I I World Championship as well as previous 
winners, and thus may support that award's international recognition, but the Petitioner does not claim 
to have won this award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "heiVg considered top 1 % [sic] is equivalent to winning a medal." 
However, the evidence from thtj,__ __ _.Jmedia guide submitted by the Petitioner states that thd I 
program "is a way of rewarding age-group athletes' hard work, dedication, and performance ... ," 
which indicates that recognition of this status is not only limited to athletes of a particular age group 
and gender, but also excludes professional athletes who do not compete by age groups inl I 
competitions. The fact that age-group athletes and professionals compete in separate divisions for 
separate prizes is confirmed in Sections 1.07 and 1.07 of the 20181 I Competition Rules, 
included with the initial submission. Further, although the record does not indicate how many athletes 
achieved goldLJstatus in 2013, it does indicate that nrrly 1
100,000 athletes compete inl .... ____ _. 
events, which suggests that receipt or eligibility for a gold certificate is far less exclusive than, 
for example, winning a cash prize in th~ I world championship, which evidence in the record 
states is awarded to the top 10 finishers out of more than 2000 competitors. In addition, the Petitioner 
does not assert or refer to evidence in the record which shows that receipt of a gold or silverl I 
certificate is reported in top media, is commonly known to the public at large, or ca1ies a !arr cash 
prize, unlike other awards for whicH I compete such as Olympic medals and world 
championship prizes. We therefore conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
has received a major, internationally recognized award. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that they meet five evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze 
below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To establish that this criterion has been met, a petitioner must demonstrate their receipt of awards or 
prizes, and that those awards or prizes were granted to acknowledge excellence in the field and are 
nationally or internationally recognized. In its motion to reconsider, the Petitioner did not reference 
new facts relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, but 
resubmitted a letter from thel IFederationl I stating that he was a national 
champion! lin the years 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014. The letter 
also states that in addition, he was thel !champion in the 2007, 2008, 
2009, and 2010. The Director had found in his previous decision that this evidence was not sufficient 
to show "the criterion [sic], competitors, and national/international acclaim of any of the 
competitions," and that the record lacked "sufficient evidence of contemporaneous publicity 
surrounding the petitioner's awards ... " 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the letter froml [ as the highest governing body ofi._ __ _, 
in I I is self-explanatory, and that no description of the national championship events is 
needed to meet the requirements of this criterion. However, depending on the specificity, detail, and 
credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a 
proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be 
disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 
(BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the 
introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, the lack of 
details regarding the national championships, specifically how the Petitioner earned the national 
championship ( dates of competitions, points system, etc.) and whether consideration for it was limited 
by age group or professional status, creates the need for corroborating evidence. Although the Director 
noted that corroborating evidence of the Petitioner's 2006 national championship was not in the record, 
despite the Petitioner's assertion, a photograph of a plaque awarded to him was included in his original 
submission. While that plaque was not accompanied by an English translation, as required under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), a comparison with the language of the letter sufficiently 
demonstrates that the Petitioner was awarded the title of national champion in the 25-29 age group by 
I lin 2006. Other photographs of medals, trophies, and plaques in the record do not corroborate 
his national title in other years, nor do several newspaper articles which report on some of his victories 
in I I As such, based upon the I I letter and corroborating evidence of his national 
championship title in 2006, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner also included several newspaper articles which describe his 
victories and placings in othd Isome of which are also confirmed by photographs of trophies 
and medals. However, as will be discussed below, the record lacks circulation statistics for these 
newspapers which might demonstrate national recognition for these awards, and also does not include 
other evidence to support such a finding. In addition, the Petitioner also reasserts that his gold status 
in th~ I program should also be considered under this criterion. However, as noted 
above, the record lacks evidence that that status is recognized at the national or international level. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion based solely on the evidence of his 
national championship in 2006. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
~ Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion upon two letters froni I, with the first dateQ 
L_J2018 stating that he "is part of the national team sincel I 2003 more than a decade honoring 
our organization ... " Although he submitted a second letter dated March 1, 2020 with his motion to 
reopen, the Petitioner correctly states on appeal that the Director did not consider this letter, or the 
Petitioner's national team membership, in his decision. The letter states that "as in any National team, 
you must be at the highest sports level, pass qualifying tests of the highest level, and be in the top 10 
of the best athlete in the country." It then goes on to list additional criteria: 
• Participate in thd~---~I Championship, except with prior permission from the Technical 
Committee 
• Classified in the top ten in the previous year'sl lchampionshir 
• Satisfactorily complete medical and performance tests, includin~~---~ andl I I ._______. 
• "Better average of the last three I I I I 
I I _______________ ___.I' 
• "Greater proximity to the positions established in the criteria for the nominal positions, as 
long as they are in the top 14 in thd I World Series or top five of the national 
championship period in progress" 
A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate eligibility for this 
criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous selection process. 
However, it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he meets every element of a given criterion, 
and we will not assume that every national team requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
Although this letter mentions benchmarks which athletes must meet in order to qualify for the ~----------~I team, several of these requirements are unclear or lack specificity, and 
the letter does not indicate whether one or all of them must be met by an athlete. For instance, the 
letter alone does not establish that participation in thel I Championship is an outstanding 
5 
achievement, and this criterion is contradicted by part of the fifth criterion requiring a top five finish 
in the national championship. Also, the meaning of "greater proximity to the positions established in 
the criteria for the nominal positions" is not apparent, nor is it clear how the "average of the last three 
(apparently referring to thel levent) is used as a .__ _______ __, 
qualifying factor. In addition, these letters are not supported by corroborating documentation such as 
official rules or selection procedures for the national team, despite the Director's request for such 
evidence in his request for evidence issued on July 18, 2019. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's 1 vork in the field for which classification 
is sought Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director noted in his initial decision denying the rtition that while the record includes several 
articles about the Petitioner and his work as J~--~ including those published in Mundo Oriental, 
it did not include evidence that that publication or others that published such articles qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. In his brief accompanying his motion 
to reopen, the Petitioner did not reference new evidence submitted in support of this criterion, but 
asserted that the political situation in I I must be taken into account because "there is no free 
press, and you cannot evaluate the level of distinction of any newspaper ... " He now repeats those 
assertions on appeal. 
We first note that the record does not include any information about the current state of the media in I I or evidence that sports reporting in general has been directly affected by the political 
situation. More importantly, the fact that Mundo Oriental "continues operating and reporting news" 
does not demonstrate that it qualifies as major media inl I as there may continue to be local 
newspapers with limited circulation and distribution as well as publications with a national reach. 2 
The Petitioner's statement that it "is a regional [publication] with regional and national circulation" is 
insufficient without supporting evidence such as circulation figures. As the record does not include 
evidence regarding the circulation and distribution of Mundo Oriental as well as other media in I I it does not demonstrate that published material about the Petitioner has appeared in major 
media. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have participated as a judge, and 
that in that role they judged the work of others in their field or an allied field of specialization. On 
motion and again on appeal, the Petitioner refers to a letter fro ml I dated July 19, 2019, which 
states that he "has actively participated as a judge and career director of the federation in many 
2 Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the 
alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who 
the intended audience of the publication is, as well as the title, date and author of the material. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F .2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part- f'..chapter-2. 
6 
important national and international events." It then lists several races where the Petitioner has served 
as a.__ ___________ ____. race judge. 
As noted by the Director in his initial decision, neither the letter nor other evidence in the record 
specifies the duties of any of these positions. The Petitioner asserts that the title of the positions, and 
the fact that their unspecified duties took place during the course of triathlons, is sufficient to meet the 
plain language of this criterion. However, the letter does not demonstrate whether participation as a 
race judge,~------------~involves evaluating or judging the work or skills of 
competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a race and ensuring sportsmanlike 
competition. Although none of the listed races werel I competitions, the submitted 2018 I I Competition Rules state that '"'Race Referees" are the Head Referee and each person 
appointed by the Head Referee to enforce rules for the Race," and do not mention judges or other 
officials who evaluate the quality of the competitors' work. Without further documentation, such as 
competition rules covering the listed races or other evidence that the Petitioner awarded points or 
exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, evidence regarding officiating at a race is 
insufficient to meet this criterion. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 3 
The Petitioner refers to four documents in the record in support of this criterion on a peal: the 
previously mentioned 20131 I program gold certificate, a letter fro stating that 
he broke a national! I record, his certification as a level I coach b .__ ____ ___. and an email 
about his acceptance into the 2019-2Q !Ambassador Program. However, he does not 
explain how each of these are original contributions to the field of athletics, nor does he elaborate on 
the impact or influence that these personal achievements have had on the sport of1 I 
Regarding thel7 certificate, as discussed above, this is ; (ecogni~T of the number of points he 
earned in thec=Ji;rogram as a result of his participation in in 2013, and the only impact 
evident in the record were the benefits he enjoyed in future races as a result of this status. 
Similarly, his coaching certification is a credential which allows him to perform as al I coach 
in the United States, but the record does not show that at the time this petition was filed, the benefits 
of earning this certification extended beyond the Petitioner and thus that it was a contribution to the 
field of athletics. And the email concerning thel !Ambassador Program provides no 
information about the program to suggest that the Petitioner's selection and potential participation 
would constitute an original contribution to thel I or the sport overall. In addition, the 
Petitioner concedes that his acceptance into this program occurred after he filed his petition, and 
3 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 
7 
therefore does not help to demonstrate that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
The letter which confirms the Petitioner's national record states that he achieved this record at the 
201 ~ !Championship in I I Texas, and congratulates him for 
this achievement as well as his qualification for his fourth consecutive! !World Championship. 
While this is an impressive personal achjevemer, the letter does not go on to explain how it has 
contributed to the sport oti I inl.__ __ ____. or to the overall field of athletics. Further, while a 
national record sets a benchmark towards which others may strive, the record does not include 
evidence of the direct impact or influence the Petitioner's achievement has had up to the time the 
petition was filed. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that these personal achievements are original contributions 
which have been of major significance to the sport ofl I or the field of athletics, we conclude 
that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11119901 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestra concertmaster, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinaiy ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not demonstrated international recognition of her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement or satisfied any of the alternate initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet three. 
The Petitioner filed an appeal that we dismissed, determining that she had met one of the ten criterion, 
the artistic exhibitions criterion, but not the requisite three. 1 The Petitioner then filed a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider which we dismissed, concluding that she had not met the criteria 
related to lesser awards, leading or critical role, and original contributions. 2 The Petitioner now 
submits a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration; be 
supported by any pertinent precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy; and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and shows proper cause for reopening the proceeding or reconsideration of the prior 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l). 
1 See Matter of A-G-M-, ID# 2524769, 2019WL 1556942 (AAOMar. 20,2019). 
2 See In Re: 5690707, 2020 WL 996542(AAOFeb . 12,2020). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
We dismiss the motions for the reasons set forth below. 3 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
In the instant motion to reconsider, the Petitioner does not indicate or provide evidence demonstrating 
how our prior decision was based upon an incorrect application of law or policy. She therefore has 
not established that she meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider and we will dismiss it 
accordingly. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On second motion, the Petitioner presents new evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion 
found at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )(3 )( viii) and asserts for the first time that she satisfies the criterion relating 
to salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(viii) 
On this motion, the Petitioner does not specifically contest our conclusion that the I I I I (Orchestra) does not enjoy a distinguishedreputation.4 Instead, she claims that 
3 The Petitioner does not contest the findings in our previous decision regarding the evidentiaiy criteria at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v). We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Ike. 
762,767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
4 We note that the Petitioner submits new evidence with respect tol I but does not indicate that this is to address 
our previous ground for dismissal. Specifically, she does not explain or show how this evidence demonstrates that the 
Orchestra enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
2 
she meets this criterion as she served in a leading role forL--------~---r-----, __ ---,-J 
She asserts that her role as the concertmaster for the Orchestra is a leading one for~--~as "[t]he 
live orchestra is an indispensable part of every I performance." She contends that a live 
orchestra is "imperative and critical to thel I shows in reviving traditional Chinese culture -
which is the mission! I seeks to accomplish .... " However the Petitioner submits no new 
evidence on motion to conoborate this claim. She further asse1is that her role as concertmaster in the 
Orchestra is critical tol I as she "is leading the orchestra in over 100 perfonnances everyyear," 
but again submits no new evidence supporting this contention on second motion. Rather, in her motion 
brief she refers us to previously submitted letters of recommendation and support to conoborate her 
assertion. As we have already reviewed and considered this evidence, we will not address it again in 
this proceeding. Absent the submission of new evidence, the Petitioner has not met the requirements 
for a motion to reopen or shown that she has performed in a leading or critical role forl I 
In order to meet the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner must 
show both that she has played in a leading or critical role for an organization and that the organization 
has a distinguished re utation. As previously discussed, she has not shown that she served in a leading 
or a critical role for Thus while we acknowledge that she has submitted new evidence 
relating t ~--~ s reputation, we need not address whether or not this documentation establishes 
that the organization has a distinguished reputation. 5 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remunerationforservices, in relation to others in thefield. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims for the first time on second motion that she meets this criterion and submits 
evidence related to her salary and non-salaried compensation from her employment withl I 
Here we note that a post-appellate motion to reopen is not the proper forum to advance new claims of 
eligibility that the Petitioner did not advance at any prior stage in the proceeding. We note as well that 
a petitioner abandons issues not raised on appeal. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 
1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the reasons discussed below, 
the evidence submitted by the Petitioner on second motion is insufficient to demonstrate that she meets 
this criterion. 
As it relates to her compensation, Petitioner provides an employment verification letter fromD 
c::Jand a copy of her 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. She asserts that, in addition to her 
$48,800 salary, she receives non-salaried compensation totaling $17,760. 6 She claims therefore that 
her "total equivalent yearly compensation/remuneration in 2017 was about $66,640." ( emphasis 
in original.) The Form W-2 and employment verification letter establish that the Petitioner 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad,429U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding that "courts and agencies are not required to make findings on 
issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach.") 
6 She calculates this remuneration by assuming that she will be on tour for 24 weeks, working 7 days per week, and 
receiving3 meals per day at a value of$20permeal. 
3 
commanded a salary of $48,800 at the time her petition was filed. The employment verification letter 
confirms that she received "non-salaried compensation, including board (2 to 4 meals each day, plus 
snacks and beverages, adjusted according to touring and performing schedules)." However, the 
Petitioner provides no independent corroborative evidence to support her assertion that the total value 
of her non-salaried compensation was $17,760 in 2017. The employment verification letter does not 
provide a dollar value for board, and the record lacks other evidence such as receipts, or other relevant 
materials, establishing that she earned this additional remuneration resulting in total compensation of 
$66,640 as claimed. The Petitioner must resolve this incongruity in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988.) In the absence of evidence resolving whether the Petitioner earned $48,800 or$66,640in 2017, 
the record is insufficient to allow for a comparison of her salary or remuneration with that of others in 
her field, or to otherwise establish that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in her field. 7 
For the foregoing reasons, the new documentation submitted on second motion does not overcome our 
previous decision, finding that evidence submitted on first motion did not demonstrate her eligibility 
for the additional criteria. 
In addition, we will dismiss the motions because they do not include "a statement about whether or 
not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, 
if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C), 
(a)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The assertions made by the Petitioner on motion do not establish that our previous decision was based 
an incorrect application oflaw or policy. In addition, the new evidence submitted on motion does not 
overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility for 
this classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
7 We note that thePetitioneralso provides salaiy documentation for others in the field. We ha vereviewed this evidence, 
but do not discuss it here as she has not established the salaiy or remuneration with which this evidence should be 
compared. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17440615 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a designer.__ ___________ ____. seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates self-employment itj I fashion design from 1997 
until at the date of filing the instant petition in June 2018.1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record confirms that she has been 
al !designer for many years and has displayed her work in national and international! I I I competitions, theatrical performances, and other artistic 
performances. She therefore meets this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this 
criterion was satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets six additional criteria, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues for the first time on appeal that she meets this criterion based on her membership 
in the Union of Designers of USSR,I IFederation,I I Union of Artists, 
Union of Designers, and I I Union of Designers. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that she is a member of an association, and that membership in the association is based on 
1 See the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, which indicates self­
employment as a freelance costume designer between 2016 and 2018 and, previously, with her eponymous design bureau 
between 1997 and 2016. 
2 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Union of Designers of USSR, the Petitioner submitted 
a membership card indicating "Year of becoming a member 1989." Ibis evidence wr accompanied 
by a letter from the former chairman of the union'~ I board,I who describes 
the union as a professional creative association of Soviet designers that was in operation between 1987 
until 1991. He asserts that the association had "very strict selection criteria" whereby "designers were 
accepted based on the results of a creative competition," and that "the selection committee consisted 
of masters of Soviet design, world famous artists, likel t' He asserts as follows: 
[The Petitioner] was admitted to the Union at the end of 1989, her membership card 
number is I I which suggests that in the two and a half years of the Union's 
existence, only a few were selected: there were hundreds of thousands of professional 
designers in the USSR, and everyone wanted to join the Union. Thus, membership in 
the Union was a confirmation of the high level, exceptional abilities and existing 
achievements. 
Here,I l's statements are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the Union of Designers 
of USSR required prospective members to demonstrate "outstanding achievements" as a condition of 
admission or that recognized national or international experts judged the outstanding achievements for 
membership with the organization. I I mentions that the Union of Designers of USSR 
considered factors such as "a high level as artists, but also have implementation in industrial products, 
their own unique developments." This statement is broad and is not accompanied by any supporting 
evidence regarding the Union of Designers of USSR or its membership requirements, such its 
constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the process for becoming a member, 
the selection criteria, and the qualifications required for the reviewers of the selection committee. 
In addition, regarding the Petitioner's membership in the.__ _________ __,Federation , 
I I Union of Artists, Union of Designers, andl I Union of Designers, the record does not 
contain documentation establishing the Petitioner's membership in any of those organizations or their 
official membership criteria. A letter from the Russian! !Federation to the 
Acting Mayor of the City o~ I dated 2013, requesting "free usage" of a premises "as the creative 
workshop of [the Petitioner] in the name of the regional non-governmental organization! I 
Union of Artists," states that the Petitioner "has beenmakingl I I I of Russia" but does not confirm her membership in either organization. Thus, regarding 
the aforementioned organizations, the Petitioner has not submitted the primary initial evidence 
required to meet this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based her work as a costume designer 
forl I On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that because "an I I 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in 
original research) . 
3 
designer's work is one of the components of success fo,....r_t_h ________ ._._._t_h...._ __ __., 
becomes a member of the team in [the] same way asL-_____________ -r""........, ........ .....," 
As an example, she relates that her work requires her "to meet and design sketches with the .__ __ .... 
attend their training, consider the music that will be used in the performance , etc." She claims, 
therefore, that selection of her work b~ I who can test first hand the 
designers expertise" constitutes "team membership." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
being selected to design costumes by individual! I conveyed membership 
in an association consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner maintains that this evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to her occupation. 3 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the membership criterion is not applicable to her occupation. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence 
that meets at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not 
meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a fashion designer could not do so. In fact, as indicated 
above, the Petitioner claims to meet six other criteria. Further, the Petitioner did not explain why the 
other criteria, such as judging and original contributions, do not apply to her occupation. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As a preliminary matter, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner froml~----­
The record reflects that this was published in 2020, subsequent to the filing of the petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). As 
this article cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate 
whether it otherwise satisfies the regulatory requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided several articles that contain photographs of the Petitioner•_d ~---­
includin articles from Cosmopolitan .com dated 2018 titled .....,... __________________ ___._.__ _ __, Thedail beast.com dated 2012 titled ~ 
.__ _______________ __," and from.__ _________ ..... However, these 
articles do not mention the Petitioner and therefore are not about her. Articles that are not about the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
4 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ 
at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the article from! I is missing the date of publication. 
Additional articles mention the Petitioner by name but are not about her relating to her work. For 
instance, the record contains a screenshot of part of an article dated 1997 from the print publication 
Where Moscow titled ! !' The article, 
which is in the "Shopping" section of the publication rovides that the Petitioner's design company 
presented a collection of bathin suits at the id I In interview dated 2000 
from Kommersant.ru, .__ __________ __. mentions that her costumes are made by the 
Petitioner. Similarly, in an interview dated 2015 from Kazan2015.com, I I I I states that the Petitioner has been her personal designer for several years for solo 
and duet performances. An article dated 2003 from Itogi.ru quotes the Petitioner, among others, in a 
discussion of fashion trends in different! I over many decades. The Petitioner discusses some 
recentl ~esign challenges and successes. As mentioned previously, the 
aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner but are about the resentation of the Petitioner's 
swimwear collection, fashion trends in .__ ____________________ ____. 
.__ ___ __,I As previously discussed, articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the article from Kazan2015.com does not include the author of the material. 
Moreover, the record contains two articles about the Petitioner related to her fashion destn work dated 
2017. In those articles, from Zhizn.ru and Life.ru, the Petitioner discusses herl desi~ 
as part of a team at thel I and highlights with individual L___J 
However, the article from Zhizn.ru does not include the author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence, at the time of filing or in response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), to establish that any of the aforementioned publications 
qualify as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 6 The purpose of the RFE 
is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been 
established. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8). In this case, the Director advised the Petitioner in the RFE that 
additional documentary evidence would be needed to establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy 
the requirement that the material be published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. Specifically, the Director advised that such evidence could include the circulation (on­
line and/or in print) for the publications in which the material appeared and the intended audience of 
the publication. 
The Petitioner did not acknowledge this request or submit the requested evidence in response to the 
RFE, but now submits evidence pertaining to the circulation of Cosmopolitan.com and 
Thedailybeast.com. When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an 
evidentiary deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Similarly, 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (instructing that 
evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should 
establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended 
audience of the publication) . 
5 
on appeal the Petitioner submits a portion of an article dated 1997 from Marie Clare Russia titled D I I that contains a photograph of a swimsuit with a caption identifying the Petitioner as 
its designer and its price. This article is primarily about "what to wear, how to be protected from the 
sunlight, where to spend a vacation," and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. The author of the 
material was not identified. There is no documentary evidence showing the distribution of Marie 
Clare Russia relative to other industry publications to demonstrate that the magazine qualifies as a 
major media. Regardless, as the Petitioner had the opportunity to submit the 1997 Marie Clare Russia 
article in response to the Director's RFE we will not consider this evidence offered for the first time 
on appeal. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that the fact that her costume designs have appeared in fashion magazines 
and broadcasts ofl I is comparable to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As previously discussed, the Petitioner did not show that at least three of the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to her occupation, she did not explain why she has not submitted evidence 
that would satisfy at least three of the criteria, and she did not establish why the evidence she has 
included is truly comparable to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore , the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that she may use comparable evidence to demonstrate her eligibility. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including 
through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Within her response to the Director's RFE the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I founder 
of the inaugural 2020....._ _______ _. who states that the Petitioner "was invited by the 
organizing committee as a consultant and a member of the panel tasked with selecting initial 
contestants in 2019 to 2020" for the I I category. He asserts that she is qualified for this 
position "as a leading expert in this field, whose costumes for many years have been ... highly 
appreciated by judges and experts .... " At the outsed ts letter indicates that the Petitioner 
"was tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019 to 2020." The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). As she filed his ~etition in June 2018l 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any judging she performed for the 20201 __________ _ 
occurred prior to or at the time of her initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only 
been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the 
work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Here, the letter does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner actually completed any judging tasks for the 20201 I 8 In addition, 
the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed as a 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
6 
judge for the 2020 '--------~ including showing how many or which contestants she 
reviewed, and how many or which initial contestants she selected for the 202ol._ _______ __. 
I I category. Further, we note that the statement does not bear the letterhead of the 
contest's company or the company's contact information. 
On a eal the Petitioner rovides a letter froml l president of Russian Children's 
'--~----~---____.who states he has known the Petitioner since 1989, "when she worked at 
the..........,_ __ ~Models House and I headed thel I department in ... Komsomolskaya Pravda." 
He provides that "when we had the idea to revive the International I I Fair, we invited 
[the Petitioner] to the organizing committee of the fair." He asserts that the Petitioner "was responsible 
for the region of Siberia and the Far East of the USSR, and was also a member of the jury of the 
competition for young fashion designers (regional in Siberia and the Far East) and finals, which took 
place inl I and also was a member of the jury of the all-Union beauty contest 'Beauty 
of Russia."' He farther claims that "[a]fter the advertising campaign I O I we continued our 
cooperation with [the Petitioner] and invited her to our other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." 
Merely submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge of the work of others 
without evidence showing when and who she judged and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. For instance, 's letter does not indicate when, in fact, 
the Petitioner performed as a judge for in the International.__ _____ ~Fair's regional and final 
competitions for young fashion designers, and the all-Union beauty contest "Beauty of Russia." The 
record also does not show, for instance, how many or which rgjonal and final Joung fashion designers 
whose work she reviewed and selected for the International._ _______ _._ Fair, or the names and 
the specific assessments of the beauty contestants she evaluated for the "Beauty of Russia" contest. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this instance, the 
record does not include supporting documentation demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge for any of the aforementioned contests. Finall eal the Petitioner submits an article 
dated 2017 from Life.ru titled ' that quotes the Petitioner, 
fashion historian.__ ______ __, and others expressing largely unfavorable opinions after the 
official presentation of the Russian national I I The article does not establish, 
however, that the Petitioner performed a role in judging the designs for the uniforms before their 
official presentation to the public. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 9 For 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (finding that 
7 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work and documentary evidence of her 
fashion design work for various clients. 1° For instance,! l a fashion designer who 
indicates she has consulted with the Petitioner, states that the Petitioner "has her own style that many 
designers tried (but f il o copy."I I a fashion designer and colleague of the 
Petitioner's from th Fashion Academ rovides that the Petitioner's i--'-----''-'------,.---~ 
.__ __________________________ __,,....__ __ --,. __ __,, a fashion 
designer and colleague of the Petitioner's from the Textile Institute i_~ __ ___. calls the Petitioner 
"an incredible pattern maker" whose "artistry in costume design elevates her work to the level of Art, 
especially her hand dyed pieces." While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of 
her work, the record does not show how the Petitioner's costume design had a majorly significant 
impact in the field, has significantly influenced the work of other designers, or otherwise equates to an 
original artistic contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, in a joint letterJ I indicate that they met the 
Petitioner as performing soloists for I ~heater for which the Petitioner 
was the set designer and costume designer. They indicate that the Petitioner subsequently designed 
the costumes in which they won a.__ ___________ __. I I, al I 
'-----~~n Israel, states that she has known the Petitioner for twenty years, and that her team has 
used the Petitioner's "incredible art designs in ou .__ _________________ _. She 
asserts that the Petitioner's "amazing talent highl1 contributed and upgraded our presentation." 
.__ _____ _., anl Jwho has known the Petitioner since childhood, 
asserts that the Petitioner's costume designs helped her and her partner to win Gold Medals in the 
19941 I The record does not establish, however, how the Petitioner's costume designs 
are considered an original contribution of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than perhaps 
impacting thel I for whom the Petitioner designed costumes. The record 
does not demonstrate sufficiently that her original work for her clients constitutes original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather 
than limited to a single client or company. 
MoreoverJ I an.__ ________________ __,, indicates that she has 
known the Petitioner since childhood and that the Petitioner designed her costumes at the junior and 
professional level, including for her I I victories at the 1998 and 20021 I She 
asserts "the whole world recognized 01jr uuiaue stv)e in costumes, which [the Petitioner] created for 
us, our style determined the fashion in_ I for a decade." I I does not provide 
specific examples of how the Petitioner's costume designs have significantly impacted the field or 
otherwise constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
10 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
8 
Further a former vice-chairman of the'-----------,----------=-" ____ ___._1=·nc.cd=ic""''a""""t""'esc........c.th=.at he has known the Petitioner smce 1992, and that she has designed 
costumes for thel I He states that the 
._P_e-ti-ti_o_n-er-"h_a_s_d_on_e_a_l_,ot to promote I I working with I I from many countries of the 
world."I I does not provide specific examples of how the original fashion designs by the 
Petitioner have significantly impacted others in her field or otherwise constitute original artistic 
contributions of "major significance" in fashion design. 
The record also contains a letter fro~ .... ------~I a coach of the.__ _________ ___. I O ,lwho provides that "for man ears, the Petitioner has been a leading designer of 
the performance outfits for the which "dictates the 
fashion for We note that 's statement does not bear the letterhead of the .-------'----...._ _____ _._ ___ -,-o_r__,,th_Jec=J' s contact information. Regardless,D 
.__ ___ ~ does not specify which of the Petitioner's designs equate to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. The documentation submitted does not demonstrate that her specific 
work for the.__ __________________ __. equates to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. As previously discussed, the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the 
field" rather than limited to a single client or company. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml lthe artistic director ofL.r----------,, 
who indicates he has known the petitioner since their collaboration in 1992 on ..... t.:.::h;:;.:e:..i.... _ __, ___ ~ 
.__ ______ ......, for which the Petitioner was the costume and set designer. .__ ___ _.comments 
on the Petitioner's work for that theater production, but he does not provide specific examples of how 
the costume or set designs from the event have significantly impacted the field at large or otherwise 
constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. He provides that "[t]he 
video version of the performance ... is still sold worldwide." In addition, the record contains 
screenshots from an unidentified library website showing that the 1999 videorecording ofl I 
.__ ________ ...,eaturing the I I with set designs by the Petitioner is available. 
However, the documentation submitted does not show that the Petitioner's design work from thatD 
production has impacted the field at a level indicative of an original artistic contribution of "major 
significance" in the design field. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
The preceding references discuss their collaborations with the Petitioner and her skills as a costume 
designer and set designer, but they do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's original 
work equates to original contributions of "major significance" in the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att 'y Gen., 7 45 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D. C. Dist. 1990). Absent detailed examples of how the Petitioner's 
design work has been of major significance in the field, the reference letters do not sufficiently 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that fashion desi ne is among the "f,mous names" in her 
field of expertise. The Petitioner provides that 'was inducted into the[ l 
Hall of Fame for her desi n/artistic contributions to~--~ and "designed far lesd,__ ____ _.r 
t-------.--------~-.L..:.:th:.:::a=n;:;_i_:t:.:::hc.::..,e Petitioner.]" Therefore, the Petitioner asserts that "if ~---~ s contributions to th ~----~ of costume design is significant enough to warrant 
induction into a Hall of Fame, [the Petitioner's] contributions are even more significant in light of her 
experience." However, the Petitioner does not provide specific examples of how her costume designs 
have impacted the field in the same manner asl I the individual to whom the Petitioner 
compares herself, or were otherwise majorly significant to the field. For example, the submitted 
documentation does not show the extent of the Petitioner's influence on other artists in the field or that 
the field has somehow changed as a result of her original work. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner must demonstrate her 
authorship of "scholarly" articles. Outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written 
for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship.12 Evidence of scholarly articles published in professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in 
print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and identify who the intended audience of the 
publication is.13 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts for the first time that she satisfies this criterion based on an article 
dated 1995 published in the print magazine Stas Russia. She asserts that "[g]iven the celebrity of its 
creator, the publication would have been a major media at the time and as such, [the Petitioner's] 
article in the same should be treated as authorship of an article in her field" under this criterion. 
First, we note that the article translation does not identify the Petitioner as the author. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not assert or establish the scholarly nature of the published article. The article does not 
appear to qualify as scholarly, in that it is a popular article offering general information on the Soviet 
and Russian fashion design industry, rather than an article written in a technical manner that presumes 
considerable knowledge of fashion design terminology. In addition, the limited information about the 
publication contained on its cover indicates its subject matter includes "All the stars" in "Music -
Cinema -Fashion -Theater -Literature -Art -Media -Night Life," with such topics as "Mystery 
of the Premier's Power," "20 Russian Beauties," "Confession," and "Who Does the Champion Sleep 
With?" Thus, the publication indicates its articles are intended to be accessible to the general public. 
The evidence, therefore, does not establish that the intended audience of the Petitioner's articles is 
"learned persons" in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not addressed the other element of this 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id. 
10 
criterion by submitting evidence to establish that Stas Russia is a professional or other trade 
publication, or that it has the circulation to be considered a major medium. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to membership, published material, 
judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles. Although she claims eligibility for one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.14 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17401897 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a scientific researcher , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a ostdoctoral scholar in the field of biochemist 
he studies.__ _________________________ __,. _ __. He received his 
bachelor of science jj biotechnology and his master of science in.__ __ ___,biotechnology from the 
University orl.__ _ __,_ Iran in 2008 and 2010, respective![' and his doctor of philosophy in! I I I developmental biology from the University of_ I in 2017. At 
the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as a postdoctoral scholar at the University oft I I ] 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer-reviewed a 
manuscript for The Journal of Physical Chemistry. In addition, the record contains evidence that the 
Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Developmental Cell, RNA, 
and FEES Letters. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets four additional criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 See the Petitioner's cuniculum vitae and Fonn 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. 
2 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that he does not meet this criterion or 
offer additional arguments . Therefore , we consider this issue to be abandoned . See Sepulveda v. US Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011 , 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his membership in the American Chemical Society (ACS) and 
his claimed membership in Iran's National Elites Foundation (INEF) meet the regulatory requirements 
of this criterion. 3 In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
As it relates to ACS, the Petitioner provided an email dated October 2019 from two representatives of 
ACS Publications, offering him "a complimentary year of membership to the [ACS]" for his 
contributions as "a new reviewer that has recently completed two or more reviews for an ACS 
Journal." The Petitioner also provided a copy of his undated ACS membership certificate, which states 
that the Petitioner is "a Member of the [ACS], entitled to all rights and privileges associated therewith 
as specified in the Constitution, By-Laws, and Regulations of the Society." The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements 
are required for membership in ACS, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts as follows: 
I was invited to join the ACS for my outstanding contributions to scientific peer review 
as judged by independent journal editors .... This special complimentary membership 
is in contrast to regular membership of the ACS which requires membership fees and 
a set of minimum professional criteria. It is reasonable to expect that only a small 
percentage of scientists qualify for this distinct class of ACS affiliation; otherwise the 
regular membership criteria would be meaningless. 
The Petitioner's statement, however, is not accompanied by any supporting evidence regarding the 
ACS or its membership requirements, such as information from its website regarding membership and 
the application process, or its constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the 
selection criteria and process for becoming a member, including, as the Petitioner asserts, at a "special 
complimentary membership" level. Regardless, the documentation submitted does not demonstrate 
how having "completed two or more reviews for an ACS Journal" constitutes outstanding 
achievements. Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that membership with ACS 
represents outstanding achievements and is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he meets this criterion based on his claimed membership in INEF. The 
record shows that in 2004 the Beneficiary received a silver medal in an international high school 
student competition, the I I The Petitioner also provided 
an award certificate from INEF, which states, in pertinent part: 
3 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on his membership in the New York Academy 
of Sciences and his appointment to the Tran Biology Olympiad National Steering Committee. On appeaL the Petitioner 
claims eligibility based on the associations mentioned above and does not address these entities. 
4 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
In recognition of your success in achieving the Silver medal of the~------~ I I in the year [2004] ... the scientific prize of the National Elites 
Foundation of the first class is awarded to you for your education in the Bachelor's 
level. 
The evidence includes a Wikipedia entry regarding the INEF. We note that Wikipedia is an online 
open source collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its 
content. 5 The Petitioner also provided the INEF bylaws on "Designation as Elites and Top Talents," 
which state at Article 2, "Definitions of Elite and Top Talent," in pertinent part, as follows: 
"Elite" according to Article 4 of the Foundation's Statute refers to a prominent and 
competent person whose impact on the development and expansion of country's 
science, art, technology, culture, and administration is tangible, and whose intelligence, 
creativity, entrepreneurship, and intellectual genius in development and expansion of 
knowledge and innovation accelerates the growth and development of science and the 
upliftment of country's human society. 
In addition, the INEF bylaws at Article 4, "Criteria for Designation as Top Talents and Elites," indicate 
that "[i]ndividuals meeting one of the following criteria are recognized as top talent or elite .... As 
Elite, the winners of the first to third places at authentic I I with the 
approval of the Ministry of Education." First, we note that the INEF bylaws submitted do not 
specifically address the membership requirements of the INEF, and the record does not contain 
evidence establishing the Petitioner's membership in INEF at the time of filing the petition in August 
2020.6 Even assuming that designation as "Elite" confers membership in the INEF, the Petitioner has 
not established how winning "first to third places at authentic! • I' 
represents outstanding achievements in the field, or that membership with INEF is judged by 
recognized national or international exf erts. As indicated above, the bylaws reflect that designation 
as "Elite" based on top placements at I requires the approval of the Ministry of 
Education. The Petitioner did not provide farther evidence showing that they qualify as recognized 
national or international experts. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains articles dated 2004 from en.mehrnews.com and Isna.ir which mention that the 
Petitioner received a silver medal, two other students received bronze medals, and Iran placed! I 
thel I An article dated 2008 from Isna.ir titled 'To Participate in thel I I I Iranian Students Left for India Today" indicates that the Petitioner was one of the 
5 See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer (last visited 
June 24, 2021); see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
6 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 
scientific advisors who accompanied the students and their supervisors to that competition. The 
Petitioner also provided an article dated 2014 fro~ I titled 1 I 
I O O , I that provides that the Petitioner was one of several 
graduate student advisors at the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) competition. 
Although the Petitioner's name is mentioned, the aforementioned articles are about the 2014 iGEM 
competition, and the 2004 and 20081 I and the performance of the Iranian team; they 
are not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Further, the record contains a 2010 press release from , the 
publishers of the Petitioner's 2010 boo_ .... ________ __. The article, published on lbna.ir, 
mentions the Petitioner as the book's author and states that the work's target audience is 
"undergraduate students in biological sciences" and "high school students, [especially] participants in 
the biology Olympiads." A book review dated 2011 from I f (indicating Book of the Month 
Science and Technology as its source) summarizes the content of each chapter of the Petitioner's book, 
praises its chapter questions, Persian-to-English glossary, and references for further reading, and notes 
several weaknesses, such as "generalities" and the omission of certain topics. However, book reviews 
of the Petitioner's book, without more, do not qualify as published material about the Petitioner and 
relating to his work as required for this criterion. Here, the Petitioner provided articles only about his 
work instead of articles about him relating to his work. 
In addition, the above-referenced articles from en.mehmews.com, Isna.ir, and Ibna.ir do not identify, 
as required, the author of the material, and the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that the 
online publications in which the articles appeared are a major trade publication or other major media. 
Similarly, although the Petitioner provided information about Book of the Month Science and 
Technology from Libl.uc.acir, indicating it is a "[m]onthly periodical specialized in book review and 
news," and the publication's "national distribution page" listing the location of several bookstores that 
distribute the publication, the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence indicating that the print 
edition of this publication qualifies as major media. 7 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted several screenshots of a video from the I I show and an 
English translation of a transcript. The Petitioner claimed that the video reflected an interview of him 
broadcasted in 2004 on I I in Iran. However, as noted by the Director, the record lacks the 
original untranslated transcript corresponding to this item. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought through submission of all required initial evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). Regarding the submission of foreign language documents, the regulation provides that 
the Petitioner shall submit such documents accompanied by a full English language translation. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). It does not indicate that English language translations may be provided in lieu 
of foreign language documents. As the record does not include the foreign language document, we 
are unable confirm the authenticity of the English translation, and therefore cannot consider it as 
7 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
demonstrating published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not establish that thel I show represents a major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner maintains that he has made several original contributions of major significance in his 
field as evidenced by his published research, citation record, and letters from experts in the field. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, 9 as discussed below, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance or support his 
claim that his original contributions "have been recognized as having had great significance." In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in 
journals, and point to the citation of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of the 
projects on which he worked, they do not show how his research and findings have been considered 
of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For instance,__ __ ~ ___ __, the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor at provides that the Petitioner ~ his laboratory in 2011 researching the process~----------------' D 
L__J rovides that in his thesis research, the Petitioner led his roup' s efforts in determining the 
and that the Petitioner's findings 
"led to new insights into how the L...----------------------------,1 I I' The Petitioner also developed "a quantitative model for the~-----~---' I lbased on these and other findings in the field" that "explained apparent discrepancies 
between expected and observecl I I revealed by results of .__ _______ __. 
spectroscopy assays published by prominent experts in the field, and ... predicted outcomes that were 
indeed realized upon farther investigation o-'L-~--------'' He states that the Petitioner's 
thesis results were published in the Petitioner's 2019 RNA article and 2019 FEES Letters article, the 
latter of which was featured asl t by the journal, which "showcases articles of highest 
quality and of interest for a broad research community." 
I I also explains that the Petitioner reviou1ly stu1ied .__ ___________ _. I lw~_it_h~ _____ __._a_t===~T_h_e_P_e_t_it_io_n_e_r_'s_r_e_s_e_fil_c_h_1_·n_t_h_is_ar_e~a 
showed an early role for the .__ _________________________ __. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
9 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
which controls He notes that the Petitioner '--------~ '--------------~ was the co-author on the resulting 2013 Developmental Cell article, which "has been cited by many 
experts in the field." Although! ~ reviews the areas of the Petitioner's previous work, he does 
not elaborate as to how, or to what extent the Petitioner's research has significantly impacted the field. 
Here,I Is letter does not discuss whether the Petitioner's findings have been implemented 
beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent of their 
application. He asserts that the Petitioner's work "advanced the sco e of research in my group and 
has set the stage for new discoveries regarding the in the future." While he 
generally notes the potential application of the Beneficiary's research,.__ __ ~ does not explain how 
it has already significantly influenced or impacted their shared field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Additional letters speculate on the potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly 
nificant at some point in the future. For exam le the Petitioner's su ervisor 
a indicates that the Petitioner studies th .--..__-..J."-__ _, ,-----'------.----------------------' '-------,r----........,level with the use of'~--=-----,--,--~ and employs a doubling-labeling strategy that 
marks~--~ with two fluorescent dyes simultaneously. He states that these technologies and 
strategies "will for the first time allow us to follow chan es in the conformation of thel I 
L_ _______________ ....,along th which would have a great impact on our 
detailed understanding of the·-----~~ process." .__ _______ __, who met the~ 
...:a=.:t...!1====1.::..s .,:;,la=b:::..:o::.:r-=a.:.:to::.:.r...1....:.a:.:t.1...-_---1....::s:.:.:ta=-=t=es::....:.:th:.:.:a:.:t--=t:.:.::h.::.e...::P...:e::.:.t1::.:.· t1:.::· o:.:.:n::.:;er' s research findings, that the L___J 
L_ __________ ....-----------,. __ __Jproduct, built upon his own earlier work 
on the interaction between and "o ened an exciting new chapter in our 
understanding of this crucial cellular rocess." a professor of biochemistry and 
biophysics at University of indicates that the Petitioner made his 
quantitative model for the available in the peer-reviewed database of molecular 
structures known as the.__ _____ ___. and that "research of the type done by [the Petitioner] can 
have direct and transformative effects on our understanding of molecular processes such as 
.__ ____ ~I' While the letters show promise in the Petitioner's work, they do not establish how his 
work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, 
potential impacts . 
.__ ___ ___.lalso indicates that the Petitioner "made major contributions to instructor resources" for 
the 6th edition ofl k textbook,! I contributing "a library of 
well-crafted questions for every chapter of the book that instructors could use either during their 
classroom lessons or in exams, in order to encourage students to think more like scientists and less 
like passive listeners." There is no documentary evidence, however, showing that the Petitioner's 
question bank has notably influenced the field or otherwise equates to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Overall, the letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the 
Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance in the Petitioner's field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
7 
value. 10 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that 
the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 
In addition to the expert opinion letters, the Petitioner also provides his publication and citation record 
from Google Scholar, statistical information regarding his number of publications and citations, and 
samples of other published articles that cite his work. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance . Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance ." We acknowledge, however, that articles that "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [a petitioner's] work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor." 12 
Regarding his citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 147 
cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his three highest cited articles received 141 
(Developmental Cell), 5 (RNA), and 1 (FEES Letters), citations, respectively.13 On appeal, the 
Petitioner claims, regarding his three highest-cited articles, that "[ w ]ith an average of 49 citations per 
paper in less than 10 years, my works have had over twice as many citations as average paper in my 
field." The Petitioner 's evidence in support of this claim includes a printout published on 
Timeshighereducation .com of data from Incites Essential Science Indicators by Thomson Reuters, 
showing a table of"Citation Averages" for papers published by field for 2000-2010 . We note that the 
Petitioner has not established the relevance of this data to the documented citations of his articles 
published in 2013 and 2019.14 Notwithstanding , the line for "Biochemistry " indicated that the 
documented citations of the Petitioner 's highest cited article, cited 141 times, does exceed the 17 .25 
average citations for "all years" in that field. 15 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. Highly-cited publications alone 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manu al/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 . 
II Id. 
12 Id. 
13 The Petitioner 's remaining article garnered no citations. 
14 The Petitioner further submits a paper published in 2005 in the journal Scientometrics which suggests "normalization of 
total number of citations with respect to the number of citations in mathematics is suggested as a tool for comparing 
scientific impact expressed by the number of citations in different fields of science," and argues, based on those metrics, 
that "[t]he 147 citations to my paper would thus correspond to over a thousand citations in clinical research." However , 
this evidence does not establish that metrics that may be suitable for comparing scientific impact expressed by the number 
of citations in different fields of science are indicators that a researcher has made contributions of major significance to 
his or her field. 
15 We note that the documented citations of the Petitioner 's second and third highest cited articles, cited 5 and 1 times, 
respectively , do not exceed that average. 
8 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance," as a citation ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the articles he 
characterizes as highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
While the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that 
evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's 
research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted examples of citations to his work by other researchers. A review 
of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research or demonstrate 
how it has widely impacted the field. The Petitioner provided a copy of an article entitled, I I I I (Nature), in which the authors cited to his 
2013 Developmental Cell article, his highest cited publication at the time of filing according to 
1Googlel 
Scholar.16 The authors cited his article, and one other, as a source for the statements that 
I I I I and 'I _ I However, the 
article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the 33 other cited papers. 
In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level 
of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Considered together, the evidence 
consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, and the reference 
letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and 
that his published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly ranked 
journals, as well as presentations at reputable conferences, establish that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. A publication that bears a high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also maintains that his 2010 textbook, satisfies the '---------.--~--, 
regulatory requirements of this criterion. The record contains documentation from that the 
Petitioner's textbook, a 
'has sold over 8000 copies in Iran since its publication in 2010, 
~m_a_kl __ n_g_i_t-th_e_b_e_s-t--s-el-li_n_g_a_c-ad_e_m_1_·c~book in biology published byl I The Petitioner asserts that 
"[g]iven its sales record, it has already been implemented and used by a significant number of other 
scientists in Iran." Although the sales information for the Petitioner's textbook indicates it was a best-
16 Although we discuss a representative sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 
seller for its publisher, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his textbook's level of sales and 
distribution indicate an original scientific contribution of major significance in the field. For instance, 
the documentation submitted does not show the number of scientists who have utilized the Petitioner's 
textbook as instructional material or that the textbook has affected the biological sciences at a level 
indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner claims on appeal that thel !questions that he authored, "used 
in at least 14 nationally-administered I exams ... attended by hundreds of thousands 
of students" and "republished verbatim in at least 7 separate books ... in whic~ I 
were analyzed in detail" demonstrates that work "clearly had a major significance in Iran." The 
Petitioner provided an uncertified English translation of a screenshot of book covers. The Petitioner 
claimed that the books contain some of his I I questions and their suggested answers. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide content from those books showing they contain :uestions and 
answers authored by him. Regardless, while the record indicates the Petitioner's! _ I 
questions may have had an influence on several student~------~ and the authors analyzing 
them, it does not establish the materials' significance to the greater field of biology. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role for the~-~-----~ Das executive director of its 2006 two-mont~ I summer school.17 For a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 18 Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.19 For the reasons 
outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that 
he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Within his initial submission, the Petitioner provided several appointment letters from thec=J that 
show that while he was an under raduate and graduate student he worked as a teacher and grader 
during s two-month summer school, includin as an instructor to teach the 
courses ' for the 2006 summer 
school. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from a professor of 
biochemistry and chairman of Iran's.__ ______ ___, steering committee, who provides that the 
Petitioner took on the "crucial" role of executive director of the c=]s two-month 2006 I I 
17 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on roles as a member of the I I I steering committee and as an instructor in itsl 
0, .. , I summer school between 2005~a_n_d_2_0_1_0 __ -0-n~ 
appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the role mentioned above and does not address these roles. 
18 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
19 Id. 
10 
~--~I summer school, in which he "led the planning and implementation of the intensive two­
month-long summer training curriculum," including "curriculum design, comprehensive classroom 
and laboratory training, and extensive examinations." The Petitioner's initial submission also included 
a letter dated 2010 from! I director of thee=] in which he confirms that between 2005 
and 2010 the Petitioner's work included the positions oflecturer and teacher of molecular genetics, 
cell biology, and biochemistry, and instructor of biology laboratory. The letter indicates the Petitioner 
"was giving up his position to continue his education in Ph.D. degree" and stated that "our institution 
gratefully recognizes his expertise." 
Within his res onse to the Director's request for evidence (RFE the Petitioner submitted a second 
letter fro ~--.-,.........,~dated 2020, in which he provides ...... t=h=at~t=h=e~_~is~a ........ scientific and educational 
or anization esta 1s ed to administer and coordinate all in Iran. He ex lains that 
the s board of trustees consists of Iran's , Iran's ~-'---------------------'-""---~ President of the ---~-----~ L----------r----,_ ________ __J 
~-~ and eight university faculty members. He notes that exams are administered 
annually in all cities in the country, and the first round of.__ __ ~exams includes the subject areas 
of mathematics, computer science, physics, astronomy, chemistry, biology, stem cell science, and 
literature. He indicates thatc=J administers and prepares several additional rounds of exams and 
training. He explains thatO eventually nominates and prepares four students i~ subject area 
for participation inl I He provides that "the organization ofl_J is akin to an 
academic institution in higher education, employing a broad range of administrative and scientific 
personnel "in administering and coordinating national exams, training programs, and international 
representations." 
He claims that the Petitioner played a leading role as "the executive director of the~I ------~ 
summer school in 2006." He explains that, in response to complaints of participants in the 2004 and 
2005 biology summer school program, the Petitioner revised the program curriculum, bolstered the 
scientific rigor of the program, streamlined and extended the exam procedures, and introduced 
scientific team projects and extracurricular science excursions. He asserts that the success of the 2006 
I )summer school program "was a testament to the importance of [the Petitioner's] 
unique role at thel__Jduring a critical period." 
The letters fromi= I and[ I did not indicate where the Petitioner's role as 
executive directo~ s 20061 : I summer school fit within the overall hierarchy 
of~ so as to demonstrate that it was a "leadin9" position within the club. Furthermore, while the 
Petitioner implemented changes toOs 2006 I I summer school program at a 
"critical period" for the organization, he has not provided evidence sufficient to show that his duties 
and responsibilities were critical for the Das a whole. The submitted documentation does not 
establish that the Petitioner's role was "leading" based on his title, placement in the organization, or his 
duties, nor does the Petitioner provide information sufficient to establish that the success~e 
Petitioner's 2006 summer school curriculum was of significant importance to the outcome ofl__J s 
activities to the extent that his role was deemed critical. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
11 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17440615 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a designer of sport and theatrical costumes, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates self-employment in athletic, theatrical and other fashion design from 1997 
until at the date of filing the instant petition in June 2018.1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record confirms that she has been 
a costume designer for many years and has displayed her work in national and international figure 
skating and synchronized swimming competitions, theatrical performances, and other artistic 
performances. She therefore meets this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this 
criterion was satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets six additional criteria, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues for the first time on appeal that she meets this criterion based on her membership 
in the Union ofDesigne~ Synchronized Swimming Federation] I Union of Artists, 
Union of Designers, andL_j Union of Designers. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that she is a member of an association, and that membership in the association is based on 
1 See the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, which indicates self­
employment as a freelance costume designer between 2016 and 2018 and, previously, with her eponymous design bureau 
between 1997 and 2016. 
2 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Union of Designers! I the Petitioner submitted 
a membership card indicating "Year of becoming a member 1989." Ibis evidence wr accompanied 
by a letter from the former chairman of the union'~ I boardJ who describes 
the union as a professional creative association oft I designers that was in operation between 1987 
until 1991. He asserts that the association had "very strict selection criteria" whereby "designers were 
accepted based on the results of a creative competition," and that "the selection committee consisted 
of masters o~ !design, world famous artists, like I ! He asserts as follows: 
[The Petitioner] was admitted to the Union at the end of 1989, her membership card 
number is 3014, which suggests that in the two and a half years of the Union's 
existence, only a few were selected: there were hundreds of thousands of professional 
designers in thd I and everyone wanted to join the Union. Thus, membership in 
the Union was a confirmation of the high level, exceptional abilities and existing 
achievements. 
""'H=er~e:.21.l-...--__ __,ls statements are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the Union of Designers l ____ lrequired prospective members to demonstrate "outstanding achievements" as a condition of 
admission or that recognized national or international experts judged the outstanding achievements for 
membership with the organization. I I mentions that the Union of Designers I I 
considered factors such as "a high level as artists, but also have implementation in industrial products, 
their own unique developments." This statement is broad and is not accompanied by any supporting 
evidence regarding the Union of Designers! I or its membership requirements, such its 
constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the process for becoming a member, 
the selection criteria, and the qualifications required for the reviewers of the selection committee. 
In addition, regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Synchronized Swimming Federation, I lunion of Artists, Union of Designers, and I !Union of Designers, the record does not 
contain documentation establishing the Petitioner's membership in any of those organizations or their 
official membership criteria. A letter from thel I Synchronized Swimming Federation to the 
Acting Mayor of the City I I dated 2013, requesting "free usage" of a premises "as the creative 
workshop of [the Petitioner] in the name of the regional non-governmental organization! I 
Union of Artists," states that the Petitioner "has been making costumes for the synchronized swimming 
national teaml .... __ ____.t' but does not confirm her membership in either organization. Thus, regarding 
the aforementioned organizations, the Petitioner has not submitted the primary initial evidence 
required to meet this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based her work as a costume designer 
for Olympic athletes. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that because "an Olympic-level costume 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
designer's work is one of the components of success for the athlete or team .... the costume designer 
becomes a member of the team in [the] same way as an Olympic coach or a choreographer would." 
As an example, she relates that her work requires her "to meet and design sketches with the athletes, 
attend their training, consider the music that will be used in the performance, etc." She claims, 
therefore, that selection of her work by Olympic "coaches and athletes who can test first hand the 
designers expertise" constitutes "team membership." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
being selected to design costumes by individual Olympic athletes and coaches conveyed membership 
in an association consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner maintains that this evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to her occupation. 3 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the membership criterion is not applicable to her occupation. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence 
that meets at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not 
meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a fashion designer could not do so. In fact, as indicated 
above, the Petitioner claims to meet six other criteria. Further, the Petitioner did not explain why the 
other criteria, such as judging and original contributions, do not apply to her occupation. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As a preliminary matter, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner from .... I--~-- ..... 
The record reflects that this was published in 2020, subsequent to the filing of the petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). As 
this article cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate 
whether it otherwise satisfies the regulatory requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided several articles that contain photographs of the Petitioner's synchronized 
swimmin or fi ure skatin costumes includin articles from Cosmopolitan.com dated 2018 titled 
--------------------- Thedailybeast.com dated 2012 titlede:J _________________ ' and from Nickvemeos.blogspot.com. However, these 
articles do not mention the Petitioner and therefore are not about her. Articles that are not about the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
4 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ 
at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the article from Nickvemeos.blogspot.com is missing the date of publication. 
Additional articles mention the Petitioner by name but are not about her relating to her work. For 
instance, the record contains a screenshot of art of an article dated 1997 from the rint publication 
titled The article, 
which is in the _-,--_..,...,..' section of the publication, rovides that the Petitioner's design company 
presented a collection of bathing suits at the inl I In interview dated 2000 
froml !figure skater ______ ..... mentions that her costumes are made by the 
Petitioner. Similarl,Y, in an interview dated 2015 from! I, synchronized swimmer I fstates that the Petitioner has ber her prsonal designer for several years for solo 
and duet performances. An article dated 2003 from quotes the Petitioner, among others, in a 
discussion of fashion trends in different sports over many decades. The Petitioner discusses some 
recent figure skating costume design challenges and successes. As mentioned previously, the 
aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner, but are about the presentation of the Petitioner's 
swimwear collection, fashion trends in sports, and the athletes! I and I I I I As previously discussed, articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the article from! I does not include the author of the material. 
Moreover, the record contains two articles about the Petitioner related to her fashion design work dated 
2017. In those articles, from and I lthe Petitioner discusses her costume design career 
as part of a team at the "'-r----..---~ House of Fashion and highlights with individual athletes. 
However, the article from.__ __ ....,does not include the author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence, at the time of filing or in response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), to establish that any of the aforementioned publications 
qualify as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 6 The purpose of the RFE 
is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been 
established. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8). In this case, the Director advised the Petitioner in the RFE that 
additional documentary evidence would be needed to establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy 
the requirement that the material be published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. Specifically, the Director advised that such evidence could include the circulation (on­
line and/or in print) for the publications in which the material appeared and the intended audience of 
the publication. 
The Petitioner did not acknowledge this request or submit the requested evidence in response to the 
RFE, but now submits evidence pertaining to the circulation of Cosmopolitan.com and 
Thedailybeast.com. When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an 
evidentiary deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Similarly, 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (instructing that 
evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should 
establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended 
audience of the publication) . 
5 
on appeal the Petitioner submits a portion of an article dated 1997 from Marie Clarel ~itled D I !' that contains a photograph of a swimsuit with a caption identifying the Petitioner as 
its designer and its price. This article is primarily about "what to wear, how to be protected from the 
sunlight, where to spend a vacation," and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. The author of the 
material was not identified. There is no documentary evidence showing the distribution of Marie 
Clare I !relative to other industry publications to demonstrate that the magazine qualifies as a 
major media. Regardless, as the Petitioner had the opportunity to submit the 1997 Marie Clare I I 
article in response to the Director's RFE we will not consider this evidence offered for the first time 
on appeal. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that the fact that her costume designs have appeared in fashion magazines 
and broadcasts of Olympic games is comparable to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As previously discussed, the Petitioner did not show that at least three of the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to her occupation, she did not explain why she has not submitted evidence 
that would satisfy at least three of the criteria, and she did not establish why the evidence she has 
included is truly comparable to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore , the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that she may use comparable evidence to demonstrate her eligibility. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including 
through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Within her response to the Director's RFE the Petitioner submitted a letter from._ _______ _, 
of the inaugural 2020c=] Skating Awards, who states that the Petitioner "was invited by the 
organizing committee as a consultant and a member of the panel tasked with selecting initial 
contestants in 2019 to 2020" for the "Best Costume" category. He asserts that she is qualified for this 
position "as a leading expert in this field, whose costumes for many years have been ... highly 
appreciated by judges and experts .... " At the outset.I l's letter indicates that the Petitioner 
"was tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019 to 2020." The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). As she filed his petition in June 2018, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any judging she performed for the 2020c=] Skating Awards 
occurred prior to or at the time of her initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only 
been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the 
work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Heref the 
11etter does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner actually completed any judging tasks for the 2020 Skating Awards. 8 In addition, 
the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed as a 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
6 
judge for the 2020c=] Skating Awards, including showing how many or which contestants she 
reviewed, and how many or which initial contestants she selected for the 2020c=] Skating A wards 
"Best Costume" category. Further, we note that the statement does not bear the letterhead of the 
contest's company or the company's contact information. 
On appeal, the Petitioner 7rovides a letter from~ _________ _. ofl I Children's 
Football LeagueJ~ __ _.who states he has known the Petitioner since 1989, "when she worked at 
the Sportswear Models House and I headed the sports department in .. .I I' 
He provides that "when we had the idea to revive the International I I Fair, we invited 
[the Petitioner] to the organizing committee of the fair." He asserts that the Petitioner "was responsible 
for the region of1 l and was also a member of the jury of the 
competition for young fashion designers (regional inl ~ and finals, which took 
place irJ land also was a member of the jury of the I beauty contest I I I I' He farther claims that "[a]fter the advertising campaign 'Prologue' we continued our 
cooperation with [the Petitioner] and invited her to our other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." 
Merely submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge of the work of others 
without evidence showing when and who she jud ed and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. For instance, s letter does not indicate when, in fact, 
the Petitioner performed as a judge for in the Inter Fair's regional and final 
competitions for young fashion designers, and the ~--_.beauty contest 1 t The 
record also does not show, for instance, how many or which re ional and final oung fashion designers 
whose work she reviewed and selected for the International Fair or the names and 
the specific assessments of the beauty contestants she evaluated for the ~-----~ contest. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this instance, the 
record does not include supporting documentation demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge for any of the aforementioned contests. Finall , on a eal, the Petitioner submits an article 
dated 2017 from titled that quotes the Petitioner, 
fashion historian.__ __ ....,... ____ _. and others expressing largely unfavorable opinions after the 
official presentation of the~--~national team's Olympic uniforms. The article does not establish, 
however, that the Petitioner performed a role in judging the designs for the uniforms before their 
official presentation to the public. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 9 For 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (finding that 
7 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work and documentary evidence of her 
fashion design work for various clients. 1° For instance,.__ _____ ____..,. a fashion designer who 
indicates she has consulted with the Petitioner, states that the Petitioner "has her own style that many 
designers tried (but (ailed) T copy.".__~ ____ ____..,. a fashion designer and colleague of the 
Petitioner's from the Fashion Academy, provides that the Petitioner's "costumes sparkled on 
Olympic champions of Figure Skating and Synchronized Swimmers." I I a fashion 
designer and colleague of the Petitioner's from the Textile Institute I I calls the Petitioner 
"an incredible pattern maker" whose "artistry in costume design elevates her work to the level of Art, 
especially her hand dyed pieces." While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of 
her work, the record does not show how the Petitioner's costume design had a majorly significant 
impact in the field, has significantly influenced the work of other designers, or otherwise equates to an 
original artistic contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, in a joint letter, pair skaters! I an~~-----~~ indicate that they met the 
Petitioner as performing soloists forl ts All Stars Ice Theater for which the Petitioner 
was the set designer and costume designer. They indicate that the Petitioner subsequently designed 
the costumes in which they won a.__ ______ ..... Championship. I J a synchronized 
swim coach inl lstates that she has known the Petitioner for twenty years, and that her team has 
used the Petitioner's "incredible art designs in our swimming costumes" in three Olympic Games. She 
asserts that the Petitioner's "amazing talent highly contributed and upgraded our presentation." 
.__ _____ _. an Olympid I champion who has known the Petitioner since childhood, 
asserts that the Petitioner's costume designs helpe~ I to win Gold Medals in the 
c=]Olympic Games. The record does not establish, however, how the Petitioner's costume designs 
are considered an original contribution of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than perhaps 
impacting the artistic scores of the athletes for whom the Petitioner designed costumes. The record 
does not demonstrate sufficiently that her original work for her clients constitutes original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather 
than limited to a single client or company. 
Moreover,! I an Olympic and world figure skating champion, indicates that she has 
known the Petitioner since childhood and that tJe Petitioner designed her costumes at the junior and 
professional level, including for herl victories at thel I Olympic Games. She 
asserts "the whole world recognized our unique style in costumes, which the Petitioner] created for 
us, our style determined the fashion in figure skating for a decade." .__ ____ ~does not provide 
specific examples of how the Petitioner's costume designs have significantly impacted the field or 
otherwise constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
10 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
8 
Further,! I a formerl I of thel I synchronized Swimming 
Committee, indicates that he has known the Petitioner since 1992, and that she has designed 
synchronized swimming costumes for the.__ ______ ____. national teams. He states that the 
Petitioner "has done a lot to promote our sport, working with athletes from many countries of the 
world." I I does not provide specific examples of how the original fashion designs by the 
Petitioner have significantly impacted others in her field or otherwise constitute original artistic 
contributions of "major significance" in fashion design. 
The record also contains a letter from.__ ______ _,, a coach ofthd I Synchronized 
Swimming Team, who provides that "for many f:ears, [the Petitioner] has been a leading designer of 
the performance outfits for thel . Synchronized Swimming team" which "dictates the 
fashion for the sport." We note thatl Is statement does not bear the letterhead of the I !Synchronized Swimming Team, or the team's contact information. Regardlessc=] 
I I does not specify which of the Petitioner's designs equate to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. The documentation submitted does not demonstrate that her specific 
work for thel I Synchronized Swimming team equates to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. As previously discussed, the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the 
field" rather than limited to a single client or company. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I thel I o i...r----,.._ __ __J 
who indicates he has known the petitioner since their collaboration in 1992 on th All Stars 
theatrical ice ballet, for which the Petitioner was the costume and set designer. .__ ___ __, comments 
on the Petitioner's work for that theater production, but he does not provide specific examples of how 
the costume or set designs from the event have significantly impacted the field at large or otherwise 
constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. He provides that "[t]he 
video version of the performance ... is still sold worldwide." In addition, the record contains 
screenshots from an unidentified librry websre showing that the 1999 videorecording 0~ I 
'-----------' featuring the All Stars with set designs by the Petitioner is available. 
However, the documentation submitted does not show that the Petitioner's design work from that ice 
production has impacted the field at a level indicative of an original artistic contribution of "major 
significance" in the design field. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
The preceding references discuss their collaborations with the Petitioner and her skills as a costume 
designer and set designer, but they do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's original 
work equates to original contributions of "major significance" in the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Absent detailed examples of how the Petitioner's 
design work has been of major significance in the field, the reference letters do not sufficiently 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that fashion designer Vera Wang is among the "famous names" in her 
field of expertise. The Petitioner provides that Ms. Wang "was inducted into the U.S. Figure Skating 
Hall of Fame for her design/artistic contributions to the sport" and "designed far less costumes for 
Olympic athletes (and medal winners) than [the Petitioner.]" Therefore, the Petitioner asserts that "if 
Ms. Wang's contributions to the sport and art of costume design is significant enough to warrant 
induction into a Hall of Fame, [the Petitioner's] contributions are even more significant in light of her 
experience." However, the Petitioner does not provide specific examples of how her costume designs 
have impacted the field in the same manner as Ms. Wang, the individual to whom the Petitioner 
compares herself, or were otherwise majorly significant to the field. For example, the submitted 
documentation does not show the extent of the Petitioner's influence on other artists in the field or that 
the field has somehow changed as a result of her original work. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner must demonstrate her 
authorship of "scholarly" articles. Outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written 
for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship.12 Evidence of scholarly articles published in professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in 
print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and identify who the intended audience of the 
publication is.13 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts for the first time that she satisfies this criterion based on an article 
dated 1995 published in the print magazine I I She asserts that "[g]iven the celebrity of its 
creator, the publication would have been a major media at the time and as such, [the Petitioner's] 
article in the same should be treated as authorship of an article in her field" under this criterion. 
First, we note that the article translation does not identify the Petitioner as the author. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not assert or establish the scholarly nature of the published article. The article does not 
appear to qualify as scholarly, in that it is a popular article offering general information on the Soviet 
and Russian fashion design industry, rather than an article written in a technical manner that presumes 
considerable knowledge of fashion design terminology. In addition, the limited information about the 
publication contained on its cover indicates its subject matter includes "All the stars" in "Music -
Cinema -Fashion -Theater -Literature -Art -Media -Night Life," with such topics as I I 
.__ ________ ___,.__ _______ __.'"Confession," and "Who Does the Champion Sleep 
With?" Thus, the publication indicates its articles are intended to be accessible to the general public. 
The evidence, therefore, does not establish that the intended audience of the Petitioner's articles is 
"learned persons" in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not addressed the other element of this 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id. 
10 
criterion by submitting evidence to establish thatl I is a professional or other trade 
publication, or that it has the circulation to be considered a major medium. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to membership, published material, 
judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles. Although she claims eligibility for one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.14 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 17186384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer of telecommunications hardware and software, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification, the record did not 
establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim or is one of the small percentage at 
the top of his field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a master of science degree in electrical and computer engineering from the 
Universit I lin 2011, and is currently employed by the Petitioner as its Head ot1 I 
L..._ ______ r-T=h=e~re~c~o=r=d~s...,hows that he co-founded~----~-~in 2011, which later 
became known as.__ ____ ____., and served as the company's vice president ofresearch until it was 
acquired by the Petitioner in 2019. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met four of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his contributions of major significance 
to the field, authorship of scholarly articles, performance in a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation, and high salary in relation to others in the field. However, in 
conducting the final merits determination, he did not find that the Beneficiary qualified as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the 
Director discounted the evidence of patents on which the Beneficiary is listed as an inventor. It further 
stresses that media articles that are not about the Beneficiary nevertheless discuss his work and were 
not properly considered in the Director's final merits determination. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusions regarding the contributions, author, 
and salary criteria, but we do not agree that the evidence sufficiently shows that~ has or had a 
distinguished reputation to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Nevertheless, because 
we agree that the Beneficiary has met the requisite three criteria and thus meets the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification, we will conduct a final merits determination of the totality of the 
evidence to determine whether he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that the Beneficiary meets that standard. 
In its appeal brief: the Petitioner primarily focuses on the patents authored by the Beneficiary for I !technology he developed and which led him to co-founcic=J In particular 
it stresses that the commercialization of the technology in those patents led to its acquisition otO 
The first issue it addresses concerns the number of patents in which the Beneficiary is named, which 
the Director characterized as 20 patent applications based upon the Beneficiary's Google Scholar 
profile. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it provided evidence of more than 7 5 patents authored 
by the Beneficiary which have been issued. We first note that beyond the Google Scholar profile and 
documentation of 6 U.S. patents and IO patents in other jurisdictions, this evidence submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) consists of tables apparently created by the 
Petitioner which list information about other patents, some of which these documents indicate are still 
pending. Such documentation may serve as reference material, but it does not serve to verify the 
existence of the listed patents, whether pending or issued. While the Petitioner submitted further 
evidence of the Beneficiary's United States and international patents on appeal, the RFE specifically 
requested further evidence of patents and their licensing and utilization. Where, as here, a Petitioner 
has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond 
to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
In addition, and more importantly for purposes of this analysis, the evidence does not indicate that 
each of the patents listed in these documents represents a new innovation or original contribution to 
the field, but rather that many of them were filed to secure intellectual property protection for an 
existing and already patented innovation in an additional jurisdiction. While this does not diminish 
the value of the Beneficiary's original contributions, the Petitioner has not established that the number 
of patents and patent applications listing the Beneficiary as an inventor is sufficient to show his 
elevated status within the field of wireless communications. 
Concerning the commercialization of the Beneficiary' ~--------------' technology 
for which the patents were filed, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the evidence 
of contracts to deploy that technology, as well as media coverage o-c==J and its purchase by the 
Petitioner Ibis evide~ce includes a statement of work (SOW) between! I I J ancOin the amount of $50,000 for an approximately six month term. The 
SOW, dated May 18, 2016o~e Beueficia~ as "Technical Re resentative" and calls for~to 
provide software to supportJ _ ] technology for devices. Additional evidence 
includes a contract betwee and.__ ______ ___, a corn an in Sri 
Lanka, for the provision of "a software application to enabl_.__ ____ ---1 D data transmission." The Petitioner also submitted a 1ress release frorn __ ...... d_a_t_e_d_F_e_b_ru_ar__.__2_6_,_, 
2019, announcing its demonstration of its I O _ wit1 I a.__ ________ _. 
Although the contracts indicate that the Beneficiary's innovations have begun to be deployed in the 
3 
telecommunications industry to some extent, it is insufficient to show that this limited 
commercialization of his technology has impacted the broader telecommunications field already or 
brought him sustained national or international acclaim in the field. For example, we note that the 
press release regarding thel I demonstration does not indicate that s software has already 
been deployed, but that it "can be utilized to update existin....,_ ___________ _.devices." 
Several of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner also highlight the potential of the 
Beneficiary's work rather than the effect it has already had on the telecommunications field.1c=] I I co-founder and CEO of writes that he ·oinedc=Js advisory board in 
2013 based upon his impression of the Beneficiary's~-----~technology. While he praises 
the Petitioner's solution as the most cost-effective to address the demand for wireless connectivity, he 
then states that it "could be a revolutionary approach to cellular networks that may help address the 
burgeoning need for wireless connectivity," and notes that "we are only at the beginning." 
Another former member ofD's advisory board isl ~ CEO ot1 I Similar toO I l's letter, he writes that the company's technology "has the potential to change the way the 
telecorn sector will operate in the corning years," and describes it's software solution as "likely to be 
the most cost-effective alternative to come to market in the next several years." Although both of 
these letters mention the ongoing commercialization of the Beneficiary's technology, neither is 
specific in describing the impact it has already made. 
An additional reference letter was submitted by~--------~of the University! I I I who notes that he met the Petitioner in 2011 at the university and fully supported him and 
the seed financing fo0 from the University ofl I Like the letters 
above, he mentions that the technology developed by the Petitioner "has the potential to be the most 
cost-effective way to improve the efficiency of cellular networks," that the "real work has just started." 
While the patents and evidence relating toe=] show that Petitioner has already significantly 
contributed to the development of telecommunications technology, these letters do not establish that 
the commercialization and impact of his innovations are at a point where he is of the small percentage 
of engineers at the top of the telecommunications field. 
The record also includes several media articles discussingc=] and the technology developed by the 
Beneficiary. As not1 d byte Director in his decision, none of the articles are about the Beneficiary, 
but instead focus on it's launch, financing and purchase by the Petitioner, and the benefits and 
drawbacks of the technologµ.ni;oduces and markets. Some of these materials appeared as blogposts, 
some as press releases frornl__Jand the Petitioner, while three of the articles were news items posted 
on websites focusing on information technology and startup companies such as www.geekwire.com 
and www.technologyreview.com. We note that while the latter articles appeared on well-known 
media and discuss the PetitionerD and the technology developed by the Beneficiary, none of them 
mention him by name. Further, the publication of these three articles is spread out over five years, 
covering the period frornc=]s beginnings to its purchase by the Petitioner, which does not indicate 
that the company or technology was receiving significant or frequent interest from industry or 
mainstream media. This not only reflects upon whether0had a distinguished reputation, as briefly 
1 All reference letters in the record have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
4 
referenced above, but also does not show that the Beneficiary was the recipient of sustained national 
or international acclaim for his work. 
Turning to the evidence of three scholarly articles written by the Beneficiary and published in one 
scientific journal and two conference proceedings, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
statements regarding the level of citations to this work are ultra vires since citations are not mentioned 
in the pertinent regulations or in users guidance relating to the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
However, we note that the Director made this statement in his final merits determination, and had 
already granted the criterion relating to the publication of scholarly articles. In addition, the Petitioner 
does not explain how these three papers, when viewed within the totality of the evidence, have 
garnered acclaim for the Beneficiary at the national or international level or mark him as one of the 
few at the top of his field. The Petitioner instead refers to the evidence of the Beneficiary's patents, 
which were discussed above, and the evidence that citations to them "number over 400." While it 
suggested in responding to the Director's RFE that those citations serve as evidence of widespread 
commentary or notice, the record does not include evidence of the nature of any commentary included 
with those citations, and the Petitioner does not otherwise explain how the citations support the 
Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Regarding evidence of the Beneficiary's salary and total remuneration, the Director concluded in his 
decision that the evidence established that he met the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) based upon 
the evidence initially submitted. However, in discussing that evidence in the final merits 
determination, the Director used the language from that criterion to diminish the significance of that 
evidence, stating that it did not establish that "his salary or remuneration is significantly high relative 
to others working in the field." The two-step adjudication process put forth in Kazarian and the 
associated users policy2 dictates that after a petitioner has established that they meet the requisite 
three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the next step is to consider whether the totality of the 
evidence shows that the person has sustained national or international acclaim and that his or her 
achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, the Director incorrectly 
applied the same standard to the evidence of the Beneficiary's remuneration in the final merits 
determination as he had under the relevant criterion, and also reached a different conclusion. 
This evidence shows that in 2019, the Beneficiary received total remuneration fromc=] in the amount 
of $818,267.92. In addition, receipts from three two-week pay periods in 2020 show that the Petitioner 
was paying him a salary at the annual rate of approximately $185,000, and also reflect a one-time 
amount marked "payout" in the amount of $201,056.85.3 The Petitioner explains on appeal that the 
figure shown in the 2019 Form W-2 reflects the Beneficiary's base salary and "his royalties and stock 
option payouts," but the record does not include information which shows how much of this total was 
comprised of base salary, royalties, and stock option payouts. Nevertheless, although we agree that 
this evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets the relevant evidentiary criterion, 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 On appeal, the~oner submits for the first time a 2019 IRS Form 1099-B which shows that he received gross proceeds 
from the sale oL__J of over $1.4 million. As noted above, where a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in 
the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered 
for the first time on appeal. Matter a/Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). We will therefore not consider this evidence in our decision. 
5 
the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary has enjoyed sustained national or international 
acclaim in his field in order to establish eligibility, and this evidence covering approximately 18 
months does not support such an assertion. 
The evidence establishes that the Beneficiary developed novel software applications for use in the 
telecommunications industry and successfully launched a company to develop and market his 
innovations which received investor funding and was ultimately bought out by the Petitioner. In 
addition, he continues to lead the development of this technology, which has begun to find it's way 
into telecommunication equipment, under the Petitioner's employment. However, the evidence does 
not show that his achievements have been widely recognized in the telecommunications industry 
through sustained acclaim in the form of awards or significant media attention, or that his innovations 
have influenced the industry to the extent that he is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12336835 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pianist and music educator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification . 
The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that her entry will substantially benefit 
the United States. Finally, the Director entered a separate finding that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts in support of her petition. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for further consideration and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pianist and music educator who is currently pursuing her doctorate degree in music 
atl !University. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet seven of these criteria, relating 
to awards, membership in professional associations, published materials about her, judging the work 
of others, original contributions of major significance, authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or 
critical roles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(vi) and (viii). The Director determined that she did not 
satisfy any of the regulatory criteria and farther entered a finding that she had willfully misrepresented 
material facts related to her achievements. 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director did not give sufficient consideration 
to the Petitioner's response to his notice of intent to deny (NOID) and as a result did not adequately 
support his finding ofwillfol misrepresentation. An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying 
a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us 
an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M­
P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a 
motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther consideration 
and entry of a new decision. 
Prior to the denial, the Director issued a NOID in which he observed that "it appears that the petitioner 
misrepresented her accomplishments." First, he stated that "a [Google] search of the petitioner's 
claimed work, . .__ ___________ ___, reveals that it was written byl I" and 
determined that the Petitioner had "willfully made a false representation" by claiming that she 
developed and created this series of books. The Director farther observed that "the petitioner 
submitted numerous letters of recommendation to establish her eligibility," and, in reference to these 
2 
letters, noted that "it appears that the petitioner has provided evidence that has been fabricated which 
is also material to whether the petitioner is eligible for the requested benefit." The Director's 
determination that the letters appear to be fabricated was based on an observation that "the submitted 
letters appear to be identical in format and do not contain the date they were authored." The Director 
did not indicate that USCIS had attempted to verify the authenticity of any of the submitted letters by 
contacting the authors or had otherwise confirmed that they were fabricated. 
In response to the NOID, the Petitioner submitted a statement and additional evidence intended to 
rebut the Director's intent to enter a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 1 She 
specifically addresses the Director's assertion that the three-book series titled! I 
I I was authored byl land not by the Petitioner. She notes that~I ---~-
has a rhythm teaching method brand (including a website and a series of books and videos called 
I ~TM that has existed for years. Her response provides images o .__ ___ ___. 
book, which, as noted, has a similar, but not identical title. The Petitioner emphasizes that it is a 
different series of books that do not resemble her books, which she states were published in China in 
I I 20192 and have yet to be widely publicized. The Petitioner also explains in some detail 
how she developed the rhythm method described inl I 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not successfully rebutted his initial finding thatD 
was authored byl I The Director acknowledged that the ~-----------~ Petitioner provided a statement in response to the NOID. However, the Director stated that "the 
assertions of the petitioner do not constitute evidence," and appears to have given no consideration to 
her statement, relying on Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) and Matter of 
Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980), caselaw that addresses the evidentiary value of 
unsupported assertions from counsel, rather than petitioners. With respect to the Petitioner's 
statement, we note that the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should 
not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 
(BIA 2000). However, the Board farther stated: "We not only encourage but require the introduction 
of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id.; see also, Matter of Y­
B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998) (noting that there is a greater need for corroborative evidence when 
the testimony lacks specificity, detail, or credibility). 
Here, the denial decision does not reflect that the Director weighed the Petitioner's statement for 
specificity or credibility, or considered it in the context of other evidence in the record, which includes 
copies of the front and back covers, table of contents, and several pages of the~-------~ I I books along with a letter from the publisher identified on the book covers and at least one 
published article that includes images of the book. Rather, the Director disregarded the Petitioner's 
statement and concluded that she had misrepresented a material fact by claiming she had writtenD 
1 With respect to her eligibility for the requested classification, the Petitioner stated the following in her letter in response 
to the NOTO: "I have received your notice based on the reason I am not extraordinary enough; I accept this result and I 
will keep study and do more contributions in both music education and piano pedagogy field." On appeal, the Petitioner 
requests review of the previously submitted documentation submitted in support of several of the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5{,___h.._..){ ....... 3)...._{i ..... )-{..._x..._). ______ ...., 
2 A letter from[ : I Publishing House indicates that the books were published onl~--~ q 2019, less than two weeks prior to the filing of the petition. 
3 
,....l ___ ..----------~I while repeating that it "appears" that this book was authored by D 
I 
The Petitioner's response to the NOID also addressed the Director's preliminary finding that the 
recommendation letters submitted in support of the petition appeared to be fabricated. In her response, 
the Petitioner explained that she sought to obtain new letters to confirm the authenticity of those 
previously provided. She attached ten new letters in which the authors confirmed that they had 
previously provided letters in support of her petition. The new letters are dated, signed, on letterhead, 
and include the phone numbers and/or e-mail addresses for the authors. The Director did not 
acknowledge receipt of these new letters and does not appear to have considered them. Rather, he 
repeated that the numerous letters of recommendation appear to be "evidence that has been fabricated." 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Director's final decision did not adequately consider 
the Petitioner's response to the NOID, and as a result, did not sufficiently explain the reasons for denial 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter will be 
remanded for farther consideration, which may include issuance of a new notice of intent to deny if 
the new decision will include a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
We farther observe that the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of certain evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In evaluating the 
scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Director determined that the Petitioner 
submitted "her published books," stated that "these works would not be considered scholarly or 
professional," and noted that "a search of the submitted book '~-----~ [sic] yielded no 
results." The Petitioner's evidence included two articles authored by her: one published in Journal of 
Hubei University for Nationalities3 and one published in Tempo, the official magazine of the New 
Jersey Music Educators Association. While we agree with the Director that the submitted piano music 
book and music education books for children that the Petitioner submitted under this criterion are not 
"scholarly articles," the Director's decision does not reflect that he considered the submitted journal 
or magazine articles in evaluating this criterion. 
With respect to many of the remaining evidentiary criteria, the Director's analysis was based, in large 
part, on a blanket determination that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation that he 
believed to be fabricated or otherwise unreliable or inconsistent. However, as noted, the Director did 
not consider the supplemental letters submitted in response to the NOID. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should reevaluate the letters submitted in support of individual evidentiary 
criteria along with the Petitioner's NOID response. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 The International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) referenced by the Director in his deci,ion appears on the coyer of this 
journal. A search of the number at portal.issn.org reflects that the number corresponds to I 
the Chinese title printed on this journal's cover. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13572239 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a developer and manufacturer of scientific instrumentation, seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary, its company president, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence to satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
met this burden. Accordingly, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation establishing that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Beneficiary was working in the United States as the president of the 
petitioning company. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three 
of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles, and performance in leading or critical roles 
for an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) and (viii). The 
evidence in the record supports the Director's determination based on the Beneficiary's work as a peer 
reviewer for professional journals in his field, his authorship of scholarly articles, and his critical and 
leading roles with the Petitioner, which has submitted ample evidence of its distinguished reputation 
in its industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary has also made original scientific contributions 
of major significance in the field of ocean science and.......,,. _______ --.::,;,....,. consistent with 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and asserts that he is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability based on the previously submitted evidence. 
Because the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite three evidentiary 
criteria, he has satisfied the initial evidence requirements. Therefore, we will consider the evidence 
submitted in support of the original contributions criterion, together with the balance of the record, to 
determine whether he possesses the level of sustained acclaim and standing in his field to establish his 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if 
their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In the present matter, the Petitioner has demonstrated the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary completed his education at the University._! _____ __. 
where he received his bachelor of science, master of science, and doctorate degrees in geography. 
After completing his graduate studies in 2001, he worked for the Petitioner as an external scientific 
consultant. Between 2002 and 2007, the Beneficiary worked as a post-doctoral fellow at I I 
University and.I !oceanography id I, Canada, and as a research officer 
at the University ofl I School of Ocean Sciences. The Beneficiary accepted a senior scientist 
position with the Petitioner in 2007, later served as the Petitioner's vice president, and has been 
employed as its president since January 2019. Between 2014 and 2018, the Beneficiary worked in 
Europe fo~ l ~ I scientific instrument company. 
Overall, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary's work, both as a researcher 
and in leading and critical roles with the petitioning company, has had a significant impact in the field 
of marine geology that has contributed to his sustained acclaim. Specifically, the record demonstrates 
his contributions to scientists' understanding o~ I in the aquatic environment and in 
advancing the scientific instruments and technologies used to measure and understand these I I 
particularly with respect to the the Petitioner's uniquel I technology. 
As noted, the Beneficiary is currently employed as the Petitioner's president and has previously held 
senior leadership and scientific roles with the company. The Petitioner has established that it enjoys 
an important and unique role in its industry as the only manufacturer of portable,~------~ I I instrumentation suitable for use in underwater environments. The record reflects that 
researchers at universities, consulting firms, and government agencies around the world rely on its I I instruments to conduct fundamental aquatic I I research, to carry out I I studies and I !assessments, and to respond to I ~,I , ( and othe~ I 
disasters. The record contains many examples of the importance of this technology to scientific 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
freponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classificati9lll----------, 
._ _____________________ ....,..I instruments used for measuring~ and the D 
~ties of water. The record reflects that thy Petitioner 1.levelops and manufactures a line of instruments under the 
L___J brand name that rely on) u_ .,. ..,. .., . and I !technologies, and are specifically 
designed for use in ocean and other aquatic environments. 
3 
research, the environment, and the public. For instance, the United States Envirnnmenta) Protection 
~ncy mandated thau Is be used on all vessels responding to the 2010 I I 
L_J in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The Petitioner has also provided detailed and probative descriptions of the Beneficiary's own critical 
scientific and leadership contributions to the company's product development and research efforts, 
indicating that he has been instrumental to its more recent product releases 
I I, and the refinement of its older product lines since initially .... jo-1-.n-in-g-th-e-co_m_p_a_n_y_i__,n 
2007. The Petitioner and other experts in the field have also weighed in on the Beneficiary's earlier 
research, its relevance to the development and enhancement of its I I technologies, and his 
influence on the use ot1 lin his field. For example,! ] a research 
oceanographer with the~ ________ __, explains that years prior to joining the petitioning 
company, the Beneficiary was one of the earliest users oQ and published several analyses of the 
instrument that are "foundational in the scientific literature concerning the use ofl I in the coastal 
ocean."I I co-founder ot1 la I I marine survey and consulting firm, 
also discusses the inlluence of the Petitioner's early research us ind I technology, no tin~ that he 
1 was the first in the world to demonstrate how researchers can estimate I I and I ~ using thel I and spurring "an avalanche ofliterally hundreds of papers usin 
results, almost all of them citing one or several of [the Beneficiary's] papers."I I explains that, 
while working for the Petitioner, the Beneficiary has farther contributed to the development of 
instrumentation and techniques that have been critical to research work in the field of I I 
I I 
The Petitioner has also successfully demonstrated that its senior staff are well-known leaders in the 
field whcj remain unusually active in collaborative scientific research at the international level. D 
I Professor of Oceanography atl I University inl l Canada, explains that 
the Petitioner "is one of very few manufacturers that maintains a presence within the ocean science 
community by actively publishing original scientific results and presenting new technolo~ 
constantly moving technology forward for the benefit of the global aquatic scientific community.'L_J 
Oexplains that the Beneficiary "is well-recognized within the ocean science community as having 
a long track record of excellent and outstanding work within the field ofl I' both 
based on his contributions to the Petitioner's technologies and related publications, and based on his 
earlier work as a researcher. The record documents that the Beneficiary has been invited to present 
the Petitioner's latest products and research at dozens of conferences worldwide[ farther contributing 
to his international acclaim. I lalso emphasizes in his letter thatl users and customers 
regularly seek the Beneficiary's input and participation in their original published research as farther 
evidence of his reputation as a "recognized leader in his field." 
In addition, several of the expert recommendation letters emphasize that the Beneficiary has made a 
major contribution to the field and cemented his international re utation by founding, organiyng, andl 
leading/chairing the Petitioner's bi-annual conference series, which 
describes as "a major conference for research related t in the aquatic environment." 
I p of the University~-~-~ in the United Kingdom describes as "an 
indispensable forum for scientists working in the field of aquatic! I' while.__--,--,------.~---' 
ofl I University i~ I Virginia, opines that "the importance of the workshops 
in advancing the collaboration and exchange of ideas amongst scientists working mainly in the aquatic 
4 
environment cannot be overstated." The record reflects that D has been held in partnership with 
universities in France, Spain, Denmark, Hungary, and Portugal since 2008 and has published its 
conference proceedings in a special issue of the professional journal Geo-Marine Letters for which 
the Beneficiary, as conference chair, served as the guest editor. 
Based on the foregoing, the evidence establishes that both the Beneficiary's leading and critical roles 
with the Petitioner and his related scientific contributions have garnered him sustained acclaim and 
place him among the small percentage at the top of a field in which the petitioning company maintains 
a high profile as an industry leader. 
The record also indicates that the Petitioner has reviewed numerous manuscripts for at least twelve 
different professional publications in his field. He has also served as guest editor for the 
aforementioned spect) issue of Geo-Matne Letters, and, as discussed above, is the founder and co­
chair of the bi-annua~------~conference, which the record reflects is regarded by experts 
as a major conference in his area of expertise. We find the Beneficiary's extensive judging experience, 
when reviewed together with the achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination 
that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence of the Beneficiary's authorship of a considerable amount of 
published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished professional journals. 
As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the citation history and other 
evidence of the influence of a beneficiary's articles can be an important indicator of the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. The 
Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary has spent most of his post-graduate career in private industry 
and asserts that the Director inappropriately compared his publication record and citation history to 
those of scientists who work as researchers or in academia in determining that his citation history did 
not reflect that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. In this 
regard, the Petitioner emphasizes that the approximately 1500 citations the Beneficiary has received 
should be considered in light of the totality of the evidence and the additional acclaim he has achieved 
as a senior scientist and leader for a private company that occupies a unique position in its specialized 
industry and provides essential research tools to scientists working in the ocean science field on a 
worldwide basis. 
The Petitioner also highlights its submission of letters from experts that address in detail the 
significance of the Beneficiary's earlier published research related to....__ ________ __,. For 
example, the record reflects that, during his post-graduate fellowship, the Beneficiary developed a 
platform calledl :Jfor the investi ation ofi lin the aquatic environment close 
to the seabedl ~cribes as a "significant technological and scientific advance" and 
states that derivatives of~--~are still in use 15 years after the Beneficiary first published his 
research. Several of the letters also credit the Beneficiary with pioneering the use of a statistical 
method called entropy analysis for the characterization of L...-__ __,...----_..._ __ ,___Jexplains that 
this method has since been "used ~s ranging from basic · es of I ~ matter ... toL___J studies to evaluate the--------~--~ -an 
important parameter when trying to I I after anl I' ~---~ confirms that the 
Beneficiary's I I method has been used by many other researchers and notes its 
application to studies of the environmental impact of aquaculture sites and in climate studies. ~ 
5 
~----~!summarizes the Beneficiary's papers and asserts that both his research contributions 
and his contributions to the Petitioner's products "are well-recognized in the scientific community and 
have enhanced the quality of research in the field." 
Although the Beneficiary is currently working in the private sector, he continues to publish his work 
and maintains a high profile as a leader in his scientific community as evidenced by his senior role 
with the Petitioner, his frequent attendance as an invited speak~d presenter at major international 
conferences, and his position as the founder and co-chair of thel_Jconference. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The record supports a finding 
that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has also demonstrated the Beneficiary's sustained 
national and international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. For these reasons, we conclude that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13570212 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a visual effects artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist, is employed as a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler forl I I I in California, where he works on video game[ film, and television projects. The Petitioner 
graduated from the I !College of Art and Design I with a bachelor of fine arts in visual 
effects in 2015 and worked as a 3D Generalist Intern forl I prior to joining Din 2016. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published materials in major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of these evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director either disregarded probative evidence or reached erroneous 
conclusions with respect to each of the claimed criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has not met at least three criteria and therefore does not satisfy the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
2 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted more than 40 exhibits under this criterion, primarily from Indonesian media 
outlets. This evidence included newspaper, magazine, and online articles, as well as stills from video 
interviews that appeared online and/or on local television stations. In determining that the Petitioner 
did not establish that he meets this criterion, the Director addressed only a few of the submitted 
exhibits, noting that some were not about the Petitioner and his work and some were not accompanied 
by proper translations. The Director farther concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the 
published material appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
While the deficiencies observed by the Director are present in some of the submitted evidence, the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that articles published by the Indonesian daily newspapers Kompas and 
The Jakarta Post meet all elements of this criterion. The articles are about the Petitioner and relating 
to his work in the field, include the required title, date and author of the material, and are accompanied 
by sufficient supporting evidence to establish that these publications qualify as major media in the 
Indonesian market. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends that his recommendation letters reflect his eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has provided letters from his former professors atl I from his supervisors at D ~-~I and from his former employer. However, the Petitioner did not explain how the letters 
demonstrate that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. The authors of 
the letters praise the Petitioner's talents, abilities, and dedication to his craft. For instance,! I 
co-founder o±1 I states that "what sets [ the Petitioner] apart from the rest of the field is his 
ability to deliver the director's vision while maintaining aesthetics and a tremendous amount of details. 
His technical skill is at the very highest level and unmatched.".__ _____ ---,, a visual effects 
professor atl I similarly states that the Petitioner "continues to stand out from the rest of the field 
because of his attention to detail, his aesthetic eye, and his technical prowess" and praises his "unique 
abilities." Another! brofessor] I comments on the Petitioner's "aesthetic eye and 
diligence to achieve what is ideal," and describes him as "a creative artist" with "a keen imagination 
and "a great work ethic." 
While all three authors state that they consider the Petitioner to be a visual effects artist of 
extraordinary ability, the letters do not establish how the Petitioner's skills are viewed by the field as 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
original contributions of major significance. The letters, for instance, do not specifically identify the 
Petitioner's contributions and explain how they have significantly impacted or unusually influenced 
the field in a major way consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, having a diverse, unique, 
or special skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. The record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to influence the field 
at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
On appeal[ the Pletitioner emphasizes that the previous! submitted letters fro Head 
of CG at and I I Head of CG at~-------~ describe his original 
contributions and should have been accepted as evidence that he satisfies this criterion. The Petitioner 
highlights the following passage froml Is letter: 
[M]any of [the Petitioner's] projects showcase not only his own style, but also manage 
to bring out the best in other's work, resulting in a consistent and complete final 
product. This is most evident in [his] contributions to I I 
I _I. .. and I I Working in a small, critical team, [the 
Petitioner] was responsible for creating a look development setup for several sequences 
as well as optimizing the scene in order to ensure rendering would complete. He worked 
closely with me and the Director to ensure the best possible outcome aligned with the 
director's vision. 
The Petitioner notes thatl l's letter includes images of his work onD and asserts that 
those images represent what "is indeed the SIGNATURE LOOK of the game." We note thaO I I stated that the images from I lwere provided "to show the extraordinary work process 
of [the Petitioner's] work"; he does not state that the Petitioner is credited with creating the signature 
look of the game. Even ifhe had stated that the Petitioner is responsible for the entire visual look of 
one or more video games for whichc=J provided visual effects, his letter would not demonstrate how 
the Petitioner's contributions have had a major influence in the overall visual effects field beyond the 
projects to which he was assigned. 2 
.__ ___ _.I of.__ ________ __. states that the Petitioner worked under his supervision on 
commercial projects for two well-known brands. He explains that the Petitioner "was in charge of 
creating a frosty effect around the hero object on the end title, which was the signature look on both 
commercials" and "was also responsible for the development aspect of the project, which was 
successfully delivered and received great reviews." However,! ~s letter offers no additional 
insight into how this "frosty effect" was original or how the Petitioner's use of the effect in these two 
commercials influenced the visual effects field. 
While the letters generally acknowledged the Petitioner's participation in high profile projects, they 
do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original contributions and explaining the 
unusual influence his work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
A review of the Petitioner's initial cover letter and memorandum in support of the petition reflects that 
he claimed to meet this criterion at the time of filing. He indicated that evidence related to this criterion 
could be found at his initial Exhibit D, which contained only the five recommendation letters 
referenced above. He did not further explain how the testimonial evidence satisfies this criterion other 
than noting that projects on which has worked as a visual effects artist have acquired a "worldwide 
audience." 
The Director did not discuss the display criterion in his request for evidence (RFE); he did not 
acknowledge that the Petitioner claimed to meet the criterion, nor did he state that the Petitioner had 
submitted evidence that satisfies the criterion. Nevertheless, the Petitioner's letter in response to the 
RFE indicates his belief that "the Service accepted the evidence" submitted under this criterion. 
In his decision, the Director emphasized that the RFE did not advise the Petitioner that he had satisfied 
this criterion. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted his IMDb page indicating that 
he had nine credits for film, television and video games, but determined that the evidence submitted 
at the time of filing and in response to the RFE did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work had been 
featured or displayed in artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he did in fact claim to meet this criterion at the time of filing. 
The Petitioner states that, "following the principals of res judicata ... even if this argument was 
overlooked, the Service is now barred from raising such issue." While it appears that the Director 
overlooked the Petitioner's initial claim that he was submitting evidence related to this criterion, this 
omission did not equate to an affirmative finding that the Petitioner met the criterion, nor did it bar the 
Director from evaluating the Petitioner's claim in his final decision. 
As noted, the Director's decision acknowledges the Petitioner's claim that he meets the display 
criterion and explains why the evidence submitted does not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner sought to rely on recommendation letters from 
his employers and former professors to meet this criterion. These letters do not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases and as such, the record 
supports the Director's determination that this criterion was not met. The Petitioner does not address 
the adverse determination or claim that it was erroneous based on the evidence he submitted. For the 
reasons stated, his argument that the Director was barred from making an adverse determination 
because he did not address the criterion in the RFE is not persuasive. Accordingly, we conclude that 
this criterion has not been met. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his position withl As it relates 
to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight tol ~ s 
recommendation letter in evaluating this criterion. 5 I I states that the Petitioner had been 
assigned as "a critical member of the Scene Assembler team" for one otO s "most important visual 
effects (VFX) projects for this yead lwhich is due for release in November 2019."6 He 
further explains the importance of the Scene Assembler team in the visual effects process, noting that 
it is the last team involved and is the one that "delivers the finished cinematic product." In addition, I I indicates that [the Petitioner] is personally responsible for 20% of the outcome of the 
VFX projects assigned to his team" but notes that due to binding non-disclosure agreements, he was 
not able to provide further information or details regarding the projects. Finally, he describes the job 
of a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler, notes that it is "the most complicated with the heaviest 
responsibility" in comparison to other visual effects professionals, and states that "[i]n addition to 
being indispensable for his team, [the Petitioner] is unequivocally a critical member of our company." 
The Director acknowledged that bot~ landl lspoke hi~hly of the Petitioner but 
determined that they did not establish how his work is leading or critical to I as a whole. 
The Director also noted that while both letters frorrc=J specifically highlighted his work on the latest 
film in thd I franchise, this film was not listed among the Petitioner's film credits based on 
the IMDb.com profile he submitted. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter frortj U ~s Head of Human Resources and 
Recruiting, who clarifies that the Petitioner was ultimately not credited for his work od I ..c===J film because his team was assigned to another key project (the Netflix series! I L__J. She states thatc=J has a permanent need for his skills and asks that USCIS "kindly treat 
this correspondence to confirm [the Petitioner's] critical role with our company." 
4 Id. at 9-10. 
5 The Director's decision reflects that he considered all submitted recommendation letters in evaluating this criterion, 
including those fr~ Petitioner's former professors atl lwho discuss his role in the production of the award­
winning short filnL___jwhile at thJ 1miversitv ?n appeal, the Petitioner does not claim eligibility based on this evidence. 
but solely relies on his ~osition wit _ _ 
6 We note that I Is letter is dated May 1, 2019, and the petition was filed in February 2020. Th~I I 
film was not included on the filmography the Petitioner submitted from his Internet Movie Database (imdb.com) profile 
at the time of filing. 
6 
While both I I andl I describe the Petitioner as being a "critical" member of the 
company, the details provided in their statements do not demonstrate how his individual or team 
contributions to his assigned projects have been of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization's activities to the extent that his role is critical within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner emphasizes! ts statement that he is responsible for 20% 
of his team's output, but it is reasonable to believe that his fellow scene assembler team members at 
are ex ected to contribute proportionally to the outcome of a given film or video game project. 
generally described the responsibilities of a scene assembler without specifip.allY, 
escn mg ow the Petitioner himself performs in an essential position forc=J as a whole, whill_J D simply describes his role as "critical" without elaborating. 7 The fact that the Petitioner's 
employer expresses its intent to employ him on a permanent basis is not sufficient to establish that his 
role with the company satisfies all elements of this criterion. 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 8 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted an October 2019 memorandum fromc=] I I offering him permanent employment as a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler at an annual salary 
of $85,000, with overtime pay of $66.40/hour. The Petitioner also provided comparative wage data 
for similar positions from several sources, including the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, Career One Stop, and Foreign Labor Certification Data Center, as well as salary data from 
Glassdoor and Payscale. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the memorandum offering him permanent 
employment does not constitute evidence of his actual earnings. Nevertheless, the Director noted that 
the offered salary appeared to be a competitive salary, but not a "high salary" in relation to others in 
the field. The Director requested copies of the Petitioner's IRS Forms W-2 or 1099 as evidence of 
his earnings and listed other evidence that would assist in the comparison between his wages and those 
of similarly employed workers in the field in his geographic area. In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner re-submitted some of the salary data from Department of Labor resources and additional 
salary data obtained from the websites Comparably and Simply Hired. He did not submit any evidence 
of his earnings fromc=Jor any other employer. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 Id. at 11 (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because he "declined to provide 
evidence showing any salary or remuneration has been paid." 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2016 through 2019 for 
the first time. This evidence confirms that he has been paid the salary indicated in his offer letter. 
However, where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
Further, even if we accepted this previously requested evidence on appeal, we note that the Director 
observed that the Petitioner's offered salary ($85,000/year) was competitive, but not high, based on 
the comparative data submitted. On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on three of the submitted sources 
of salary data for his occupation: (1) a Glassdoor survey listing a national average base py of $59~515; 
(2) a $75,270 national median pay figure from the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and (3) a I 
metropolitan area mean wage of $86,237 from the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center. Based on 
this information, the Petitioner's earnings are competitive in his geographic area of employment and 
may be above average nationally. However, the evidence does not establish that he has commanded 
a "high salary" or "other significantly high remuneration" in relation to others in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office 
receipts reflect an individual's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in 
the performing arts. 9 
As with the display criterion, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's initial claim that he 
meets this criterion or otherwise address this criterion in the RFE.10 The Petitioner's letter in response 
to the RFE indicates his belief that "the Service accepted the evidence" submitted under this criterion. 
The Director addressed this criterion in the decision and emphasized that he did not conclude in the 
RFE that the criterion had been satisfied. The Director determined that the Petitioner, as a visual 
effects artist, has not established his commercial success in the performing arts, noting that this 
criterion requires evidence related to the volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a 
performing artist's success. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's IMDb profile, but noted that 
simply being credited is not sufficient. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director was barred from making an adverse determination 
with respect to this criterion after failing to address it in the RFE. For the reasons already discussed, 
that argument is not persuasive. He does not otherwise address the Director's determination or the 
reasoning that supports it, nor does he explain how the evidence already submitted establishes that he 
meets this criterion. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
10 At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that the five recommendation letters referenced above were being submitted 
in support of this criterion. 
8 
The Petitioner also argues that evidence for this criterion should be considered as comparable evidence 
because he is a visual artist, rather than a performing artist, and the criteria is not readily applicable to 
him. The Petitioner asserts that "it is undisputed that projects that he was involved in were 
commercially successful." As noted, however, simply being "involved" or credited for a commercially 
successful project is not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. The evidence must 
reflect the individual's commercial successes in relation to others and be accompanied by comparative 
box office receipts and sales data. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to a petitioner's occupation.11 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required.12 General assertions that any of 
the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims 
that USCIS should accept recommendation letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 13 Here, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, he has consistently claimed that he can meet at least four criteria without needing to rely on 
comparable evidence. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. The prior nonimmigrant approval 
does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a 
different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Further, an immigrant petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record and a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of 
statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of 
proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). 
We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Nor are we bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. 
La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), aftd, 248 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or, in 
the alternative, evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
11 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
9 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record demonstrates that Petitioner is regarded as a talented visual effects artist with 
artistic and technical skills that are highly valued by his academic mentors and professional 
supervisors. The record also shows that he has received some media attention in his home country as 
a result of earning a position with a prestigious! lanimation studio, and he appears poised 
for continued professional success in his competitive field. However, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13476972 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research assistant professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record does not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is current! ed as an assistant research professor at the ~I------~ 
L...--------r-------,___JUniversity. He received his bachelor's degree in biomedical 
sciences from University in 2004 and his doctor of philosophy from I I 
~-------~Veterinary College in the I I in 2011. Fallowing completion of 
study, he worked as a post-doctoral fellow at the University ofl I 
hool of Dentistry from 2011 to 2013, and as a senior post-doctoral fellow at the University 
s Centre of OrthopaediF and Trauma Research in I I from 2013 until 2017 Ibj 
Petitioner's research focuses on thel '---------------------------' bone formation and bone health. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet four of the regulatory criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria, relating to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. The record supports these conclusions as it reflects that 
the Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication to professional journals 
including Frontiers in Endocrinology, iScience, and Bone, thus satisfying the judging criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv). He has also authored scholarly articles in professional publications including 
PLOS One, Journal of Bone and Mineral Research, Biotechniques, and others. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erred in determining that he did not provide 
evidence satisfying the two remaining claimed criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all the 
evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner offered his Google Scholar citation history and submitted 
copies of six articles from scientific journals in which the authors cited to one of the Petitioner's 
published articles. The Petitioner explained that in the field of scientific research "articles are rarely 
written about a scientist or his or her work." 
The Director acknowledged the submitted evidence but determined that citations to the Petitioner's 
work do not satisfy this criterion because they are not published material "about" the Petitioner. On 
appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that "in scientific research, articles are not written solely about a 
scientist or his or her work" and suggests that articles that cite to his work should therefore be sufficient 
to meet this criterion, noting that some of the articles directly reference him by name. 
The Petitioner's claim is not persuasive. As noted by the Director, the published material must be 
"about" the individual, meaning that both the Petitioner and his work should be the focus of an article 
in order for it to satisfy all elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Here, the published 
materials submitted are about the research studies performed by the articles' authors. They are not 
about the Petitioner, nor are they about the dozens of other researchers whose work is also cited by 
the same authors. Although the Petitioner claims that articles about scientists are "rarely written," he 
is not exempted from his burden to establish that the submitted evidence meets each element of the 
regulatory criterion. Here, the evidence does not meet this burden. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his publications 
and conference presentations, his citation history, copies of six articles that cite his work, and nine 
recommendation letters from colleagues, former colleagues and other scientists who discuss his 
research and standing in the field. 2 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 While we do not discuss every letter individually in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted recommendation letters "explain in 
great detail the multiple original, significant contributions [he] has made in the field of musculoskeletal 
systems and I t' and, when considered with evidence of his publications, presentations and 
citations, are sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he satisfies this criterion. 
Specifically, he states that his journal articles and conference presentations provide evidence of his 
original contributions, while the expert letters explain their significance, and his Google Scholar 
citation report confirms that significance. 3 
The Petitioner highlights five original scientific contributions in his appellate brief: which we will 
discuss in tum below. 
First, the Petitioner emphasizes that he was "the first scientist to discover I.__ ______ ___. 
The record reflects 
that he published four articles based on his graduate research in this area, most notably an article 
published in PloS One in 2012 that had been cited 56 times at the time of filing. A letter from D I I Executive Director at the.__ ______ ---;:=====::;---- states that 
"this novel work is of articular im ortance, as defects in skeletal! I have been shown to 
result in a and subse uen~ f, a "major concern due 
to the agilg poplulation of the US.".__ _______ _,, who co-supervised the Petitioner's Ph.D. 
project at Veterinary College, explains that "identifying the regulatory mechanisms that govern I p is essential for the development of new therapeutics to maintain bone mass and 
structure." He also notes that the Petitioner presented his graduate research work at thel I I I annual meetings, where he received awards for best poster presentation and best scientific 
abstract. 
The publication and presentation of the Petitioner's research in this area establish the originality of the 
work, and we acknowledge that his research relates to understandingc::J diseases that impact many 
people as they age. The letters, however, are insufficient to confirm that the impact or influence of 
the Petitioner's research contributions in this field has risen to the level of "major significance." For 
example, '-------~ letter suggests that the Petitioner's work resulted in incremental 
advancements in researchers' understanding of .__ _________________ __.but he 
does not explain its remarkable impact on either farther research or advancements in the field, or 
indicate whether or how it has been essential to the development of "new therapeutics." A letter from 
, who also supervised the Petitioner's graduate research atl I Veterinary '----------~ College, notes that his PloS One article has been cited over 50 times and states that "the high level of 
interest in his work demonstrates the importance of these findings." However, the fact that the 
Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a 
contribution of major significance. Without any additional context or comparative data, we cannot 
determine that 50 or more citations would reflect such significance in the Petitioner's field. 
3 The Petitioner listed 21 peer-reviewed articles in his cover letter, and we note that several of the letters mention his '"more 
than 20 articles." The submitted Google Scholar profile shows that he has been the author of approximately 50 
publications, with approximately half of those having at least one citation. According to Google Scholar, nearly half of 
his cumulative citations were attributed to two review articles co-authored by him rather than to aiticles that described his 
original research. Citations to individual articles will be discussed in this section. 
4 
The Petitioner highlights another research study in which he 'I I 
factors otj I the regulation of a kidne re ulating factor made byl I 
the effects of muscle secreted factors on differentiation, and gene profiling of the 
' He states that his work in this area '-----------------------------' "was so significant that he published an article about it," referring to an article that appeared in 
Molecular and Cellular Endocrinology in 2015. He emphasizes that the article had been cited 74 
times as of the date of filing this petition, as evidence that "many others in the field found the work 
compelling and important." While we note that citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the 
Petitioner's work in the field, they do not, by themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the 
nature of that discussion or the impact of his work on the field. That context must be provided by 
other evidence in the record. Here, none of the submitted recommendation letters discuss the 
Petitioner's research in this area and he does not farther explain how his research contribution has 
influenced or impacted the field. 
The third contribution the Petitioner describes in his brief relates to his identification of "a novel 
mech~nism by whic .__ ___ __, ____________________ __,' In her letter, 
!explains that while is "one of the most effective treatments currently available for 
.__in_d_u_c-in_g __ ...,I formation," its "mechanism of action is still not folly known." She states that the 
Petitioner's "identification of the activation ofthd I I I has important therapeutic implications for disease~ such~~~ ~ I" but she do~s not 
elaborate as to how the Petitioner's research contribution has had a remarkable impact on farther 
research or on the therapeutic use o±LJ 
The record reflects that the Petitioner ublished a a er titled 
.__ ________ _.' in PloS One in 2015 which had garnered 24 citations at the time the petition 
was filed. The Petitioner also provided evidef ce that this paper was one of 108 puh)icatioos cited in 
a 2018 review article b~ ~titled_ ~ (JBMR 
Plus). I I summarizes the research in this area over the last three decades, noting that many 
groups ofresearchers (includin the Petitioner's have "illuminated many of the cellular and molecular 
mechanisms" through whic .__ ____________ _. The author concludes that a more 
thorough understanding of these mechanisms "will be necessary to design new and improved future I I treatments." The Petitioner argues that the evidence demonstrates that his research has 
brought the field "one step closer for finding therapies for diseases such asl t' While the 
record supports a conclusion that the Petitioner made an original contribution through the publication 
of his paper, it does not demonstrate that this contribution is one that has been recognized for its major 
significance in the field. 
The two remainin ori inal contributions the Petitioner describes relate to his develo ment and 
publication of The 
Petitioner ex lains that he 
----~----~~......,,........,~~- .......... ~-~----" The record reflects that the Petitioner 
published this research in Calc[fied Tissue International in 2014 and that his article had been cited 56 
times when this petition was filed. I lstates that this technique "has provided an abundant 
source of cells for studying I" and refers to scientists who relied on this technique to study I In their own published research. I ~ Professor of Orthopaedic 
5 
Research at University ofl I where the Petitioner developed the technique, states that the 
'-------------.==-=m=-o-=-d::.e:...:l:...::.;-for studying disorders ofl I was important because 
most studies investigating! I biology have used mouse cells and cell lines, "which do not 
adequately represent what occurs in human tissues." He states that the Petitioner's cell model has 
become a "standard technique" in his laboratory. 
Finally, the Petitioner explains that he was the first scientist to develop a technique to extract! I 
.__ _____________ ____.I samples, noting tha~ 0 k had previously been 
extracted from rodent bones or other transformed cell lines. He states that this contribution is 
significant because '------------------~ relevant for human drug therapies, 
which will allow other researchers to advance their own research in the field to find effective thera 1es 
foj !diseases." He published his research, .__ __________________ ____. 
in Bone in 2016 and the record reflects that it had been cited 15 times as of the date of filing. 
Several of the recommendation letters highlight these contributions. I I who co-
authored the paper, states that the technique will "farther the study of diseases such as I I 
and "enable researchers to stud~ I in a model that is much 
~m-o-re-cl-in_i_c-al-ly-re~levant." I l states that the Petitioner's cell model techniques "have had a 
major impact in the field of1 I biology" noting thatll "are notoriously difficult 
cells to isolate from I" He farther state~ell culture models "have 
advanced not only [the Petitioner's] own research but also that of otherl I researchers" 
and identifies three articles that relied on the Petitioner's cell model techniques.I I, another 
co-author of the Petitioner's Bone article, confirms that the Petitioner was "the first researcher to 
successfully.__ ____________ ~' and states that "[t]his techni~ue is now used by 
other researchers in my laboratory, as well as scientists in the UK and Europe." [ lalso 
notes the use of this technique in laboratories located in Australia, Europe and Asia and states that 
"[t]his clearly demonstrates the wide-reaching impact of [the Petitioner's research] and its national 
and international importance." Finally,.__ _______ ____. ofj I University School of 
Medicine, states that both of the techniques described above "have become essential and widely used 
tools within thel ~ field, as evidenced by the numerous publications in which these 
techniques were used." 
The letters confirm the originality of the Petitioner's work in developing the two I I cell model 
techniques discussed above. While the testimonial evidence corroborates the Petitioner's claim that 
these techniques represented improvements to existing methods of'----~---~~~---=-' I I, statements about the widespread implementation of these techniques appear to be based 
solely on the number of articles that cite to the Petitioner's 2016 article published in Bone (15 citations) 
and 2014 article published in Calc[fied Tissue International (56 citations). Again, we emphasize that 
citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the Petitioner's work in the field. They do not, by 
themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the nature of that discussion or the impact of his 
work on the field to meet this criterion. Further, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence 
showing that the citation frequency noted confirms that his work has provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of 
major significance in the field." For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually 
high in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly 
significant. 
6 
The submitted articles citing to the Petitioner's techniques indicate that researchers in his field are 
continually investigating new and more efficient methods for.__ _________ __, and that the 
Petitioner's research has contributed to these advancements. For example, a 2019 article b 
et al. (International Journal of Molecular Science) compares the Petitioner's.__..--------
described in his 2016 Bone article with two other methods for obtaining.__ ___ _. through 
differentiation of.__ ______ __, The authors describe the Petitioner's method as "not very 
efficient" because the process is "very time consuming and only a few cells are obtained." The record 
reflects that other studies o~.__ __ ___.~ have relied on the Petitioner's techniques to obtain cells for 
research, but its overall impact or influence on research in the field has not been demonstrated. 
While the record, including the reference letters, establishes that the Petitioner's research has value 
and has received some attention in the field, it is insufficient to confirm that the impact or influence 
of his work has risen to the level of "major significance" in the field. He has not submitted sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that his research has provoked widespread commentary or that it has received 
notice from others at a level indicative of its "major significance" in the field, as required under the 
criterion. Accordingly, based on the relevant documents in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13883616 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who works in film and television productions. The record reflects that she 
worked as a~----------~ in Canada prior to transitioning to an acting career. She 
relocated to the United States in 2014 and is a member of the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television 
and Radio Artists (ACTRA) and Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio 
Artists (SAG-AFTRA). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet seven of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vii), Display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of these seven criteria, relating to judging the 
work of others in her field. The record reflects that the Petitioner was a member of the I I I !Nominating Committee for the 25th Annual Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards in 
2018. Based on the evidence provided regarding the SAG Awards nomination process, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner has met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision contains multiple errors and oversights 
and asserts that she meets six additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met a second criterion, relating to the 
display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. However, she has not established, as required, 
that she satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from various Canadian print and online publications. The 
Director determined that none of the submitted articles meet all requirements set forth in this 
regulation. The Director observed that two of the articles are about the Petitioner and relate to her 
work as an actor, but found insufficient evidence to establish that the articles, published byl I 
magazine and actorsentertainment.com, respectively, appeared in professional, major trade or major 
media publications. He farther noted that many of the articles were published in the late 1990s and 
early 2000s when the Petitioner was working as ~ I for a Canadian television station serving 
thel I area. The Director classified some of this evidence as "local media" and 
determined that these articles do not relate to the Petitioner's work in the field for which classification 
is sought (in this case, acting). Finally, the Director noted that some of the submitted articles only 
briefly mention the Petitioner and are therefore not "about her" while other articles did not include the 
author of the material as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director did not provide sufficient explanation to support 
his determination that she did not satisfy this criterion. She states, for example, that the Director did 
not identify which articles were deemed to be "local media," specify which articles were lacking 
information regarding the author, or address why the information she provided regarding the 
circulation statistics for various publications was insufficient to establish that they are "major media." 
The Petitioner also contends that the Director should have given foll consideration to older articles 
that relate to her work as a I l noting that her career in I I garnered her 
recognition that allowed her to successfully transition td I acting roles. 
Turning to the submitted evidence, we acknowledge that both the I I magazine and 
actorsentertainment.com articles are about the Petitioner and relate to her work as an actor. The article 
from actorsentertainment.com (which includes an embedded interview on the website's ActorsE Chat 
show) was accompanied by a screenshot from website.informer.com indicating that the website has 
267 daily visitors, 534 daily page views and an "Alexa Rank" of 4,967,327. The article from I I 
was not accompanied by any information regarding the magazine, its intended audience, or its 
circulation or distribution statistics in comparison to other publications, information which the 
Petitioner maintains she has been unable to obtain.1 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that evidence of published material in 
3 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from 
actorsentertainment.com indicating that its ActorsE Chat streaming show has over 1500 episodes and 
over 6.9 million viewers. The Petitioner submitted an article from Deadline which provides ratings 
for ABC network's Thursday night lineup, showing that its top-rated show had 6.48 million viewers. 
She stated that "if this is considered a top major program then it stands to reason that ActorsE Chat 
would be considered the same" and should qualify as a major medium. However, the evidence does 
not establish that Actors£ Chat enjoys an audience comparable to that of a major network television 
show. Based on the limited information provided, it appears that its 1500+ episodes have cumulatively 
garnered 7 million views over the course of its 10 seasons; the evidence does not establish that this is 
the typical viewership for any of its online video interviews or the associated articles. In order to show 
that actorsentertainment.com qualifies as a major medium in its online category, the Petitioner would 
need to submit comparative website statistics. The information provided at the time of filing, showing 
an "Alexa Rank" of 4,967,327, does not support the Petitioner's claim that actorsentertainment.com 
is a major medium. The Petitioner did not provide other comparative data showing this website's 
ranking in relation to similar websites. 
With respect to the article published i~ I magazine, the Petitioner reiterates on appeal that she 
has been unable to obtain evidence regarding the magazine's circulation or distribution in relation to 
other, similar publications. She provides the resume for the author who wrote the article about her 
and asserts that since the author is a paid professional writer, the article qualifies as a "professional 
publication." Her argument that any article written by a professional writer is a "professional 
publication" is not persuasive. A professional publication is typically one which has members of a 
specific profession as its target audience and would include, for example, a scientific journal. The 
limited evidence in the record regardin~ I does not establish that it qualifies as a professional, 
major trade publication or other major medium. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles fro 
are not about her and relating to her work. A 2011 article titled r-------.-----------------' I t' is an interview with.__ ___ ____. the Petitioner's co-star in the movie I I This article includes one sentence about the Petitioner noting has a lead role in 
this movie and was formerly a I I at 's station. She is not 
otherwise mentioned in the three-page article, which is abou .__ __ ___. rather than about her. 
Other articles froml I date from the Petitioner's tenure as an.__ ______ _, 
,___ _ ____.I A 1999 article titled l I (from the newspaper's fashion section) is limited to a 
photograph of the Petitioner, with a caption that identifies where she bought her outfit and how much 
she paid for it. Two articles published in 2000 are about Thel ~ move to a new studio. One 
article includes a photograph of the Petitioner and her I I but she is only briefly 
mentioned in the body of the article. The other article is about a party held to celebrate the opening of 
the new studio and appeared in the newspaper's Food section; the Petitioner appears in a captioned 
photograph. A photocopy of a clipping from another article titled '------------~ I I is largely illegible but appears to include a photograph of the Petitioner 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
identifying her as ~ I A 1998 clipping from the "Letters" section of the newspaper 
includes a photograph of the Petitioner identifying her as a ~-----,--~ but there is no 
accompanying article. None of the referenced articles or captioned photographs qualify as published 
material "about" the Petitioner and relating to her work. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor).2 
Further, several of the newspaper clippings have only handwritten notations identifying the date of 
publication and identifying the source of the article a · this required information 
is not identified on the copied portion of the newspaper itself. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a clipping of ar-=n=ew.;..;...;;;;s=ai;;..e=r=--=art=...;:;;;.;ic='l..;;;..e....;;t=it=le:;..:d;:;....a_ __ ---,.... ______ __, 
I I which is about the new ownership of the and its rebrandin 
asl I The article discusses the Petitioner's move to the.__ __________ _. 
However, the article does not include the date or title of the publication or identify the author of the 
article as required by the regulation. As with several of the other articles attributed to I I I I the date of publication and I I have been handwritten on the provided 
photocopy. 
The Petitioner also rovided several articles ublished b A 1997 article titled D 
'includes two photographs of the Petitioner L---------r--------------,_J identifying her as .__ ____________ ___.' but the accompanying article, only a portion 
of which is provided, does not mention her and is not about her. A 1998 article titled 1 I 
I ~ is also about I I' It mentions the Petitioner in a photo caption and notes 
that she would be I I but the article is about changes at the 
TV station and was not written about her. 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that she has appeared inl l which is described on its 
cover as..,....----------,--~ One article from the Winter 2002 edition provided coverage 
of the 2 is.__ ________ __. uction and includes a photograph of the Petitioner with a caption 
identifying her as "celebrity auctioneer." A 2000 article title 1 I I I' is about the new ownership of thd.___~~tation. The Petitioner did not provide the complete 
article and she is not mentioned in the portion provided. She appears in a captioned photograph. 
For the reafons disrusse<l th] ~7-does not establish that the articles that appeared in the 
publications ,I I an~ ~re about the Petitioner. Further, 
several of the copies provided are ac ~mg cert am elements required by the regulation, including the 
date, title and/or author of the material. Nevertheless, we have also considered the Petitioner's claims 
that these publications qualify as major media. She asserts that both.__ _____ __, and D 
I I are owned by "one of the top leading daily newspaper ownership groups in Canada" and 
she compares their respective current circulation figures to those of the top 10 U.S. newspapers (as of 
2020). She has not provided evidence re ardin their respective circulation rankings among Canadian 
daily newspapers and her claims tha publications should be considered 'Tai or media " 
because .__ ___________ _,are not persuasive. She also emphasizes that I 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
5 
magazine "is distributed as an insert in the foll circulation of Canada's largest newspaper, I.__ __ ___. I I There is evidence supporting thatl I qualifies as major media in Canada, 
but as noted, the submitted articles froml I did not satisfy the other requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner did not claim to meet this criterion at the time of filing. However, in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), she stated that she "created a TV Reality Series calle~ I ~ in 2017 and later teamed up with producd I and director! I inl 12019 
to farther develop and produce the show, which would see me as the executive producer, original 
concept, and main host/performer." The Petitioner explains that the show concept would have been 
presented to potential buyers/distributors at thel I pitch event in 2020 but notes that 
the event was canceled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The record contains evidence related to the 
show, including a synopsis, a budget (drafted November 2019 with a projected start date of March 
2021), a co-production contract, and an IMDb page. The Petitioner emphasizes that the producers and 
directors continue to work on the show's development. 
In evaluating this criterion, the Director emphasized that the show is still in development, would not 
air until 2021 at the earliest, and therefore could not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date 
of filing. The Director also observed that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her work on this 
project qualifies as an original contribution of major significance in the performing arts. Finally, the 
Director questioned how the Petitioner's proposed role as the host of this show would be "germane to 
[her] achievements as an actress." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that thel !concept is original and emphasizes that she is 
credited as its creator. With respect to the Director's assertion that her prospective role as host of the 
show would not be "germane," she emphasizes that it was her role as al I that 
initially qualified her for entry to ACTRA (Canada's union for professionals working in movies and 
television) and asserts that a host, like an actor, is a performing artist. She acknowledges that the show 
would not be scheduled to air prior to 2021, but notes that the concept, budget, and co-production 
agreement were in place prior to the filing of the petition. Finally, in response to the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish how her show concept is a contribution of major 
significance to the performing arts field, she states that "[ s ]ubmitting the budget is quantitative proof 
of the impact the show would have on the US economy and especially for others in my field of 
endeavor who would obtain work and income from this project." She asserts that she submitted 
6 
evidence that the show will make "a significant contribution to the performing arts, the US economy, 
American families and the United States as a whole." 
While we agree with the Petitioner that her proposed hosting role can be deemed to fall within her area 
of expertise in the performing arts, her other arguments with respect to this criterion are not persuasive. 
The evidence sup[corts her claim that the show concept, proposed budget and co-production agreement 
forl existed at the time the petition filed in December 2019. However, none of this 
evidence is sufficient to establish the "major significance" of a television series that has not yet found 
a distributor, filmed an episode, or aired before a viewing audience. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the 
filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). For the purposes of meeting this 
criterion, she must provide evidence of an original contribution or contributions that have already been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or µ.aY.e.., 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. She has not established that her show concept foil__J I lhas had this impact and her projections regarding its potential artistic and economic impact 
are not sufficient to meet her burden. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." We disagree with the 
Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only 
to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own 
work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 3 As such, certain exhibitions or showcases featuring the 
work of performing artists may meet the plain language of this regulation. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner was credited with a significant role in the 2010 Canadian 
film I I which was screened at several film festivals including the~-------~ I I Film Festival and I I Film Festival. In contrast to commercial movie releases, a given 
film festival may select films for screening based on their artistic merits and thus may be deemed an 
exhibition or showcase of the work of the artists involved. Based on the evidence submitted regarding 
the screening of I I at film festivals, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 9-10 (stating that officers should use the common 
dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
7 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her 
performances in television shows, movies and a miniseries and discussed several of the 
recommendation letters she provided. However, he determined that the evidence did not establish her 
leading role or demonstrate that her performances contributed in a way that was of significant 
importance to the outcome of a studio or production company. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she performed "leading and critical roles for the biggest television 
shows rnllrently on air" in reference to her single ersodP12l?earances on award-winning series□ I I ll andl__J. She also em hasizes that she was cast 
in critical roles in several made-for-television movies that ap 
of the Emmy-nominated miniserid I on the eared on network, in an episode 
winning I hioviel I and in I~--~ Channel, in thd laward 
an official selection of several film 
festivals. 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments," 
and the Petitioner has not established that any of these productions themselves constitute organizations 
or establishments. Therefore, even if we determined that she held a leading or critical role for a 
distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner also submitted letters from representatives of production 
companies and other organizations to establish that she meets this criterion. The letters, however, do not 
establish that she held a leadin or critical position for these organizations. 4 I J vice 
president of mentions the Petitioner's roles in thd l moviel I 
and in th~---~movi ~--~ and notes that he produced both movies forl I While he 
asserts that the Petitioner's performances in these movies were critical to the individual productions, he 
does not indicate whether or how she served in a critical role for.__ ___ ~ _ ___. The Petitioner 
subsequently submitted an updated letter froml lthat was identical to the first, but included a 
statement that the Petitioner's "performances have contributed greatly to the success ofl I 
in garnering the necessary investment dollars through her popularity as a talented actress whose 
performances consistently resonate with, and draw, a worldwide audience." We agree with the Director's 
determination that these general assertions are not substantiated in the record and are insufficient on their 
own to demonstrate the Petitioner's leading or critical role with! I The record does not include, for 
example, evidence that links the Petitioner's attachment to ::e=] production with a large investment or 
other demonstrable evidence of her impact on the company's finances. 
We have also considered a letter !rum director and produce~ I who slate that t" worked wi~ 
the Petitioner on an episode oi I documentary seriesl foJ I 
Channel. He praises her "outstanding performance" and asserts that it contributed to the critical and 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 
commercial success of the production. He also refers to.__ _________ a_s_"_a_n_a_c_cl_a~imed production 
company." But I I does not claim to be a representative of 
'---,----:------=t Channel and his letter does not establish how the Petitioner's role in an episode of.__ ____ ____, 
leading or critical to either of those organizations . 
.__ ____ _.I President/Executive Producer o~ .... ________ ____.I, also provided a letter in support 
of the petition. He states that his com ortant and critical roles" in numerous 
productions includingg,1.. ______ .....J..JL__~ __ _J'Jr-----,--------' I I and.__ _________ ~ .... __ ~ movie. He ._a_d_dr_e_s-se_s,-----,..s_. 
distinguished reputation and asserts that the network approved of casting the Petitioner in I I because of her talent and proven versatility. Whild lstates that he has .... w-o-rk_e_d_w-ith~ 
the Petitioner on eight productions, he does not state how her involvement on these projects has impacted 
the activities o~ I in a way that is commensurate with performing in a leading or 
critical role with that organization. Nor does his letter establish that he is able to speak to the Petitioner's 
leading or critical role forl I 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from who indicates that she produced the Canadian 
realit~ I series .__ _____ ____, for . The record reflects that the 
Petitioner hosted this show, which aired nationwide in Canada o ~---~ for two seasons (2004 to 
2005).1 I states that the effect of the Petitioner's work "on sales" was "measurable" and 
noted that "we were able to track consumer response from week to week.'I I states that "as 
a direct result of her participation on the show" the Petitioner "had a substantial influence onl I I I (a Canada-based home improvement roduct retailer), as well as on the show's 
sponsors, including! 6 and I I Whil a ears to be in a position 
to discuss whether the Petitioner held a leading or critical role wit .__ ______ _., she does not 
provide sufficient detail to establish that the Petitioner held such a role, nor does the record contain 
evidence ot1 I distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not submitted letters from l I or from the sponsors mentioned by I !explaining how her role as host of .... I _ ____, 
1 ..... ----~I was leading or critical for any of those organizations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence ofl I's 2004 purchase of another building supplies 
company for $1...0.fil4 and states that "I argue that the show and my role on the show was a significant 
contribution toL....Js earning muscle to be able to make such a huge acquisition." She also emphasizes 
tha~was eventually sold tol lin 2016 and asserts that I lwas a large part of 
the attraction for the sale as it enhancen as a 'well-known brand."' As noted, the Petitioner does 
not offer a letter from a representative~ I. or its successor, or any eyidence o~her thanc=J I ts letter, in support of her claims that her hosting role was critical to thel .... __ ____.J organization 
as a whole. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml la general sales manager with I ~ b l and former chairperson of the I O _ 
He states that he invited the Petitioner to serve on the charil's board and notes that during her 
association, "the organization reached record donations." I expresses that he is "confident that 
her participation and reputation assisted greatly to that record." On appeal, the Petitioner supplements 
the record with additional evidence of her involvement inl I charitable events, mostly during 
her tenure as '----------~ She has not established that her involvement with these 
9 
organizations and events meets all elements of this criterion and, as noted by the Director, these activities 
do not appear to reflect her achievements as a performing artist. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I Head of International Sales fo~ I a 
French film company. She states that, from 2016 through 2019, the Petitioner "has been an essential art 
of our entertainment team for the critical sales and marketin of r===~=-L----~------------l 
offerings to the international buyers that attend the~-------~ in Santa Monica, CA in 
November." I I refers to the Petitioner as a "vital team member" and credits her with 
responsibility for "many various and demanding tasks and responsibilities that enabled us to work 
smoothly and supported our sales team in the challenging tasks of sales and marketing for France's lar est 
film producer and distributor." We agree with the Director's determination that "-r-------~ 
description of the sales support duties performed by the Petitioner during the r=a=nn=u=a=l.__,__ ___ ___J I ~vent does not establish how she serves in a leading or critical role to th...__ __ ___, organization 
as a whole. 
Finally, the Petitioner emphasizes that she submitted 11 reference letters from fellow actors and industry 
professionals who attest to her achievements and requests that they be reviewed under this criterion as 
"comparable evidence." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the 
listed criteria do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. A petitioner should explain why she has 
not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required. 5 General assertions that 
any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims 
that USCIS should accept recommendation letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 6 Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate why an actor cannot ofter evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, she has consistently claimed that she can meet as many of seven of the ten criteria. We note that we 
have considered reference letters that contain information relevant to specific criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 7 
The Petitioner provided a copy of her 2018 Canadian tax return,8 some of her IRS Forms W-2 for 
2018 and 2019, evidence of contracts and payments she received for work in individual television and 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. at 11 (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
8 This document shows that she earned total income of$80,761.09 (Canadian), most of which was received as "lump-sum 
payments" reported on one or more Forms T4A, copies of which have not been provided. 
10 
movie projects, and evidence of residuals payments made to her. Her claim that she has commanded 
a high salary is primarily based on the hourly or daily wage she has received for her work on certain 
projects. The record does not contain evidence of her overall salary and other remuneration from all 
sources for any given year, nor is it clear based on the evidence submitted how frequently she is 
engaged to work on a project-by-project basis. Many of the projects documented in the record through 
contracts or deal memos required a short commitment ranging from one day to one week. 
The Petitioner provided comparative salary data from several sources, including: Payscale, which 
shows an average actor/actress hourly pay of $19.95 and a 90th percentile wage of $99.43; the 
Department of Labor's Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Online Wage Library, which shows a Level 
4 hourly wage of $48.08 for actors in thel I area; and, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 
which shows that actors in the United States earn a mean hourly wage of $29 .14, with the 90th 
percentile earning at least $60.41. 9 In determining that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion, the 
Director noted that the provided FLC Level 4 and Payscale 90th percentile hourly wages amount to 
annual salaries of over $100,000 and over $200,000 respectively, and that the Petitioner had not 
established that her earnings have reached that level in an given year. 
The Petitioner also provided an online article titled "What are the Typical Starting Average Salaries 
for an Actor?", published by the Houston Chronicle in 2018. The article summarizes 2016 BLS salary 
data for actors, but also includes separate sections addressing the salaries paid to movie and television 
actors, noting that starting salaries for such actors "are defined by [SAG-AFTRA]." According to 
this article, the minimum salary for a television or movie actor hired for one day is $933 and those 
hired for one week earn $3,239 (as of2016). The record also includes a 2009 article from The Toronto 
Star which provides some average annual income figures for Canadian actors, but does not address 
hourly, daily or weekly rates set by ACTRA for television and movie actors. Further, the record 
contains no recent evidence regarding salaries of actors in Canada that could serve as a basis for 
comparison with the income figures reported on the Petitioner's 2018 Canadian tax return. 
Because the Petitioner is a member of SAG-AFTRA and ACTRA working in film and television roles, 
the salary information she provided from Department of Labor and Payscale, which appear to include 
all actors, may not allow a meaningful comparison of her earnings "in relation to others in the field." 
While SAG-AFTRA members may generally earn higher salaries compared to other actors, it is 
reasonable to compare her earnings to that of other professional movie and television actors whose 
pay is dictated by this union scale. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Based on the evidence of payments she received for individual projects, the Petitioner has not 
established that she has commanded a hi~h salary compared to other television and movie actors. She 
provided a copy of her deal memo for the I motion picture I I indicating that she 
was guaranteed compensation at "SAG Scale $3,320 per week+ 10%" for a guaranteed work period 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner also submits 2020 salary data for actors/performers from Sala1ycom. 
11 
of one week for her role asl t'10 We cannot determine based on the evidence submitted 
that earning 10% above the standard salary set by SAG-AFTRA amounts to a "high salary" in relation 
to others. The record reflects that the Petitioner was aid at or ·ust above the standard SAG "day 
~r" rate for her appearances in the television seriesL.---~----1-------~-,____J and 
L_J and "SAG scale" for her roles in commercials fo ~-~ an .__ _______ ____.As noted, 
while the Petitioner submitted various forms of evidence in support of this criterion, the record does 
not clearly show her total salary or total remuneration for her work as an actor in any given year. 
Based on her hourly or daily earnings as documented in the record, she has not established that she 
commands a high salary in comparison to other movie and television actors. 
With respect to her work in Canada, the Petitioner provided evidence that she was aid "ACTRA 
double scale" for her services as the host of the second season of th'l'-'-......,,.......,_,...._ ______ ....1 sen es 
~------~in 2005 and for one day of shooting for an ~-----~video in 2012. 
However, there is insufficient evidence demonstrating that this constitutes a "high salary" for a 
professional host or actor in Canada. As noted, the supporting evidence related to salaries for Canadian 
actors is limited to the above-referenced 2009 Toronto Star article. 
Finally, while the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has received additional remuneration 
for some of her work in the form of residual payments, she has not provided supporting evidence to 
establish that such remuneration has been "significantly high" when compared to the residual 
payments that others in the field receive, or otherwise shown that her total remuneration is significantly 
high. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 11 Fulfilling the criterion is not simply a matter of demonstrating credited 
involvement in a commercially successful film or show. 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on the commercial success of the motion 
picture which achieved $5 million in receipts in its first week of theatrical release and $12 
million in overall.12 She also emphasizes the ratings success of the I I 
television movie~---~ pointing to a press release published by Zap2/t, which indicates that the 
movie was viewed by 3 .4 million viewers and was one of the most watched TV movies of the 
2010/2011 season among female viewers ages 12-34. Finally, on appeal, she submits evidence related 
to DVD sales for the moviel I, in which she played the role of.__ ____ ~' An article 
10 A letter the executive producer oti lstates that the Petitioner was paid $3,652 for a single day of work on the 
film, which is not consistent with the terms of the deal memo specifying that she was paid at the SAG weekly rate. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 On appeJ tbe Petitijner submits an article from www.boxofficemojo.com titled 'I I Box Office for 2018" 
which rank .__ __ _. at number 46 out of 512 movies released inl I during the 2018 calendar year. 
12 
published by the-numbers.com in October 2009 indicates that the DVD sold 95,000 units ($1.42 
million) in its first week ofrelease for a tenth-place finish on "the DVD sales chart." 
Even ifwe concluded based on this evidence that the Petitioner has established the commercial success 
of one or more of these projects, it is her burden to establish that the box office receipts and television 
ratings reflect her individual success in relation to other performing artists and she has not yovided 
sufficient evidrce ta meet tlis burden. She played small roles as al -in both I pnd.__ ____ __, She has not submitted media coverage, reviews, promotional materials, 
or other evidence that associates either movie's box office or sales results with her involvement in the 
project. 
While the record reflects that the Petitioner was cast in._l ~--__.I as the mother of one of the main 
teen characters, it does not include independent evidence demonstrating that the ratings success of the 
movie can be attributed to her inclusion in the cast. The Petitioner provided evidence that several 
actors who appeared in the movie received award nominations for their performances, but the 
Petitioner was not among them, nor is she mentioned in the submitted reviews or rher nromotiona) 
materials about the movie. We acknowledge that[ La Vice President with_ I 
and the producer of states in his letter that the Petitioner's "beautiful and critical 
performance aL-_r----------,1 was, without question, instrumental to the critical acclaim and 
commercial success.__ ___ __,chieved," but he does not elaborate and this general statement is 
insufficient to establish that all elements of this criterion have been met. 
The Petitioner claims on appeal that the Director should have considered the critical success of her 
film and television projects in evaluating whether she satisfied this criterion. As noted by the Director 
in his decision, the plain language of this criterion focuses on commercial successes based on box 
office receipts and sales; it provides no basis for evaluating critical acclaim or success in the 
performing arts in the alternative. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. The prior nonimmigrant approval 
does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a 
different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. An immigrant petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record and a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of 
statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of 
proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). 
We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Nor are we bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. 
La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), aftd, 248 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
13 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13832895 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a boxer and kickboxer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met 
that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and 
legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
The Director denied the petition after concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), related to judging the work of others. 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner established that he had received nationally 
recognized awards or prizes in the sport of kickboxing and therefore met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). We withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had submitted sufficient 
evidence to satisfy the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We also addressed the 
Petitioner's claim that he met three additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including the 
criteria related to memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published 
material in major media, and original contributions of major significance. We concluded that because 
the Petitioner satisfied only one criterion, he did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we misapplied the law, misinterpreted certain evidence, and 
incorrectly determined that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to satisfy the criteria 
2 
relating to the membership, published materials and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii) 
and (v). He does not contest our conclusion that he did not submit evidence to satisfy the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, he requests that we reconsider the 
previously submitted letters of reference from experts in his field as comparable evidence under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).1 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on his receipt of the 
designation "Master of Sport in WTKA Kickboxing."3 In our appellate decision acknowledged that 
the Petitioner submitted a certificate documenting his receipt of this title and a letter froml I I pf the I I World Traditional Kickboxing Association (WTKA). We noted that, 
whilel I described the achievements required for receipt of the designation, he "consistently 
refers to it as a title rather than a membership." We further emphasized that I I did not 
mention an association into which the Petitioner was granted entry as a result of being conferred this 
title. 
The Petitioner asserts that we erred in determining that his Master of Sports designation "is not an 
association that requires outstanding achievement," noting that our decision "appears to concentrate 
on the semantic meaning of the word 'association' and its alleged opposition to the designation of 
'title," which admittedly is used throughout the translation of the corroborating letter ofl I" 
The Petitioner contends that "the AAO misunderstands the plain meaning of the word 'association' as 
used in the statute" and states that ' [ c ]learly the statute does not require that the alien is an actual 
members of a formal 'association' with by-laws, statutes and officers." 
The Petitioner suggests that the meaning of the words "membership" and "association" should both 
be interpreted generously when evaluating whether a given individual is a "member of an association" 
in the field which requires outstanding achievements of its members. He refers to a non-precedent 
decision in which we determined that membership on a national team could satisfy the criterion at 8 
1 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in thd lsports Club. 
the World Traditional Kickboxing Association (WTKA) and the I I National Kickboxing Team. He has not 
pursued these claims on motion. 
3 
e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
users officers in future adjudications. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing 
law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, while we acknowledge that membership on a national team may, depending on the evidence 
presented in an individual case, be sufficient to satisfy this criterion, 4 the Petitioner has not adequately 
explained how his receipt of the "Master of Sport" title is equivalent to admission as a member to a 
national team or any recognized group or organization of athletes in his sport. There is insufficient 
evidence to support a determination that recipients of a "Master of Sport" title are granted membership 
to a group of any type. His claim that the athletes who have earned the "Master of Sport" title form 
"an association of people holding this title" is not corroborated in the record. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or users 
policy in concluding that he did not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our previous decision, we observed that three of the four published articles submitted in support of 
this criterion reported on the competition results of groups of athletes from thd }region 
of who artici ated in boxin and kickboxin corn etitions. We noted that one of the articles, 
titled ~------------------------~(published by the 
website www.galsports.com), includes multiple introductory and concluding paragraphs describing 
the competition in general, and devotes one sentence each to the Petitioner and eight other athletes, 
describing their results in the competition. Finally, we emphasized that since none of the articles 
provide details about the individual athletes beyond reporting their competition results, the articles 
were not "about" the Petitioner or any other individual athlete. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that our decision mistakenly relied on Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 
F.Supp.2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), in which the court determined that brief mentions of an athlete 
within articles about a team are not articles about the athlete. A review of our decision reflects that 
we did not indicate our reliance on Noroozi, although we acknowledged that the Director had cited to 
this district court case in his decision. Nevertheless, the Petitioner attempts to distinguish the articles 
submitted here from those mentioned in Noroozi, noting that the court emphasized that the articles 
submitted in that matter contained only a "brief mention" of the beneficiary or referenced him only 
"in passing." The Petitioner maintains that he was "afforded his own paragraph" in each of the articles 
but does not explain how a one-sentence paragraph reporting on his competition results supports his 
claim that these articles were "about" him. The submission of results from a sporting event without 
any discussion of the Petitioner and his work is not consistent with the meaning of"published material 
about the alien" pursuant to the plain language of the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 12 (stating that election to a national all-star or Olympic 
team mist serve as comparable evidence for evidence of membership in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
We also acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted one article that satisfies the regulatory 
requirement that the article be "about" him and relating to his work in the field. The article focuses 
on his victory in a boxing tournament inl I in 2012, mentions the Petitioner in its title and 
includes two paragraphs in which his coach describes his fight and his prospects as a boxer. However, 
we determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that the article, which 
was posted on the website www.sport.ifua, appeared in a professional publication, major trade 
publication or other major medium. We emphasized that comparative circulation or similar data is 
most relevant to determining whether a particular publication qualifies under this criterion, and that 
the Petitioner did lot provile comparative data showing this website's ranking in relation to similar 
websites based in or focused on sports. We also noted that the evidence he submitted 
indicates that www.sport.ifua is "a regional sporting Internet portal" and "targeted towards a smaller 
readership than media focusing on sports news at the national ... level." 
On motion, the Petitioner "repeats the assertion that the internet copies of articles fall under the 
category of 'other major media' required by the statute." He does not address the specific deficiencies 
we addressed in our decision, explain how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in evaluating the 
article referenced above, or offer any support for his suggestion that any article published on the 
Internet qualifies as "major media." 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that our prior determination with respect 
to this criterion was based on a misapplication of law or USCIS policy. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In our prior decision, we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had submitted 
evidence to satisfy this criterion. We acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted certificates 
indicating that he was conferred a second category judge rank in WTKA kickboxing in November 
2015 and a first category judging rank in October 2016. While such evidence establishes that the 
Petitioner has been qualified to serve as a judge in this sport, it does not confirm or corroborate his 
participation as a judge in any specific WTKA event. 
The Petitioner also submitted the above-referenced letter from I I who discusses in detail 
the role of a judge in WTKA kickboxing matches and the different judging ranks or categories. 
However, we noted that certain statements he made regarding the Petitioner were not consistent with 
other information in the record. Specifically, he states that: (1) the Petitioner received his "first 
category" judging qualification in December 2017, more than a year after the date on his certificate; 
and (2) the Petitioner judged WTKA competitions beginning in 2012, three or more years prior to the 
issuance of his second category judging certification. Based on these unresolved inconsistencies and 
a lack of independent, objective evidence related to the Petitioner's judging activities, we found□ I 1 , Is letter insufficient to document the Petitioner's participation as a judge in WTKA 
competitions. 
On motion, the Petitioner acknowledges our de nova review of matters before us on appeal but asserts 
that "the decision to revoke a prior determination of the Director without allowing the Petitioner to 
respond to the alleged inconsistencies is patently inequitable." He argues that he "would have been 
5 
able to present additional evidence or explanation to rebut the alleged inconsistencies" if he had the 
opportunity. He farther contends that we erred by citing to Matter of Ho, I&N Dec. 582 (BIA 1988) 
in addressing the inconsistencies in the record, noting that "the holding of Matter of Ho with regard to 
inconsistencies and contradictions applies to situations where the prior record clearly indicates such 
problems and the Respondent is given opportunity to clarify them." With respect to the inconsistencies 
discussed in our decision, the Petitioner states: 
That the Petitioner began judging kickboxing competitions in 2012 but only received 
his judging certificate in 2015 can be explained simply and sufficiently be the fact that 
not all competitions reqtre judges to hold judge certificates. The erroneous date 
provided in the letter can be attributed to simple clerical error, however, 
without input from the letter writer ... the precise reason for this discrepancy remains 
unknown.'' 
The Petitioner maintains that the discrepancies we noted were minor, that he presented primary 
evidence of his qualifications as a judge, and that I I's letter is sufficient to establish "that 
the Petitioner did indeed participate as a WTKA kickboxingjudge and was not merely granted judging 
certificate." In the alternative, he requests that we remand this matter to the Director for issuance of 
a request for evidence would allow him to address this criterion and the inconsistencies addressed in 
our decision. 
As acknowledged by the Petitioner, we exercise de nova review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and 
discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the 
record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. Furthermore, an 
application or petition that does not comply with the technical requirements of the law may be denied 
by the AAO even if the Service Center does not identify all of the grounds for denial in the initial 
decision. See Spencer Enterprises, Inc. v. United States, 229 F. Supp. 2d 1025, 1043 (E.D. Cal. 2001), 
affld, 345 F.3d 683 (9th Cir. 2003). The Petitioner has not established that we misapplied the law or 
any USCIS policy by withdrawing the Director's determination that he had met the judging criterion. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's new claim that "not all competitions require judges to hold 
judge certificates" this unsupported statement does not adequately resolve the apparent inconsistencies 
inl F's letter. Further, we note that, in addition to the inconsistencies discussed in our 
decision, we determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, in part, due to a lack of other 
independent, objective evidence of his participation in any WTKA kickboxing or other events in his 
field of expertise. 
In response to the Petitioner's request that we remand this matter for issuance of a request for evidence 
so that he can supplement the record, we emphasize that a petitioner filing a motion to reconsider 
must establish that our decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our 
initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner cannot meet this burden by requesting an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our determination with respect to this 
criterion was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, or that our decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. 
6 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's new claim that that "some of the enumerated categories do 
not readily apply to extraordinary ability in the field of boxing and kickboxing" and his request that 
we reconsider previously submitted testimonial evidence as "comparable evidence" under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The record reflects that the Petitioner did not previously claim 
that USCIS should consider comparable evidence in this matter and he does not argue that we 
overlooked such a claim in our prior decision. As he alleges no error or incorrect application of law 
or policy in our prior decision in this regard, his new comparable evidence claim does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Nevertheless, we note that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if 
the listed criteria do not readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. 5 A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 6 Here, the Petitioner initially claimed to meet at least five of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily 
apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims that USCIS should accept witness letters 
as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 7 The fact that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that 
satisfies at least three criteria does not mean that it is impossible for a kickboxing or boxing athlete to 
do so. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904102 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to 
the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner works in the film and television industry as a director of 
photography. He is the founder ofl I a Florida-based production company. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet six of these criteria, and the Director determined that he met four of them. Specifically, the 
Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to memberships in associations that 
require outstanding achievements, published materials in major media, judging the work of others in 
his field, and display of his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(iii), (vi) and (vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and leading or critical roles with 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. I 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ce11ain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision reflects that he did not consider all the 
evidence together in its totality in determining whether he is eligible for the benefit sought. We agree 
with that assertion as the final merits analysis section of the decision is limited to two very brief 
paragraphs and contains few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director 
determined that the Petitioner satisfied the membership, published material and judging criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (vi), no evidence related to these three criteria is mentioned or 
weighed in the final merits discussion or elsewhere in the decision. He simply observes that the criteria 
have been met. In weighing the evidence submitted in support of the display criterion, the Director 
refers to the Petitioner's submission of "copies of festival passes," but does not reference other relevant 
evidence in the record pertaining to the display of the Petitioner's work. 
In addition to not fully weighing the evidence submitted in support of these four criteria, the Director's 
final merits discussion disregarded evidence that the Petitioner had provided in support of two 
additional criteria, as well as evidence he had submitted in support of his claim that he enjoys sustained 
national and international acclaim as a cinematographer/director of photography. Such evidence 
included multiple expert opinion letters and media coverage related to awards he received. Because 
the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not 
sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he is an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10894857 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art director and photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability.1 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her degree in photography from I I College of Art and Design and 
currently serves as an art director and photographer working on various projects in the United States 
on her 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to prizes or awards and the display of 
the alien's work, but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with published material, judging, 
leading or critical role, and high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she 
meets each of the criteria in which the Director found in the negative. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the awards and 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
display criteria. Additionally, we conclude that she has also satisfied the judging as well as the 
published material requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided several articles about her and relating to her work. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, the record supports the 
Petitioner's eligibility claims related to this requirement because she provided aO2018 article from 
InStyle Magazine discussing her and her work in the field. The record also contains circulation 
statistics from Comscore demonstrating this publication, during the time frame the Petitioner's article 
appeared in the magazine, qualifies as major media. The Director appears to have mistaken these 
publication statistics to have originated from InStyle Magazine itself As a result, the Petitioner has 
satisfied this criterion's requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director indicated that some of the material lacked complete translations and discussed various 
shortcomings with the quality of her judging experience. However, we note that the Petitioner 
provided emails that did not require any translation that indicated she had judged three competitions, 
as well as one publication listing her as one of the jury of judges. This sufficiently demonstrates that 
the Petitioner satisfied the basic elements of this criterion's requirements. 
Our above analysis comprises all the criteria that the Petitioner satisfied within part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As she has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is 
unnecessary that we discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. 5 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
5 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
3 
The Petitioner is an art director and photographer based inl~-----~ She attained her Master of 
Fine Arts in photography and has worked as a photographer and a writer. Her career began as a 
freelance photographer and she published her first photo book in 2016. As indicated above, the 
Petitioner garnered awards, received press coverage, judged others, and displayed her work. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements rise to a level 
of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 6 
The Petitioner provided evidence of three awards that satisfied the prizes or awards criterion. Those 
included a 2018 gold prize at the com etition. The Petitioner achieved this 
accolade while competing against other professionals in the cate ory. She also earned a 
third-place finish in the 2013 version of this competition as a~----~ The Petitioner did not 
show the prestige or level of 1ecognit{on that this competition enjoys. The Petitioner also made a notable 
third-place finish at the 2015 Photography Awards, and she finished in second place at the 2015 I I Awards. The only material relating to the prestige of these competitions were from a regional 
version of GQ Magazine in Taiwan, self-promotional claims made within documentation from the 
competition itself: or from one lesser-known website, photocompetitions.com. 7 The Petitioner also 
received several honorable mentions at other various photography competitions. It is not apparent that 
the Petitioner has demonstrated sustained acclaim at the requisite national or international level. She has 
not shown that her achievements received significant attention and as a result, has not demonstrated her 
prizes and awards are commensurate with those among the top of her field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered material from several organizations relating to her 
and her work. Although two notable articles covered her and discussed her work, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international 
acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 8 Much of the remaining material was from 
local media stations without demonstrating the significance of the program or the radio or television 
station. 9 She also provided work from other regional media with similar shortcomings. Further, the 
Petitioner did not offer material from entities serving similar localities or a similar intended audience 
for us to compare to her localized media coverage, which is required by USCIS policy.10 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22. 2010) (Policy Memo). https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
6H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19.1990). 
7 Even though the Petitioner did not present this evidence for consideration under the prizes or awards category, we observe 
that she provided the circulation statistics for GQ Taiwan for 2019. We reiterate that the article discussing her! I 
Photography Award was published in 2015. The Petitioner has not demonstrated this publication's circulation statistics 
from 2019 should apply to the article discussing her 2015 in an attempt to demonstrate national or international recognition 
relating to the competition's prestige or to her award's recognition. 
8 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
9 Although the Petitioner claimed she was featured in an interview that appeared on! !{the mobile application 
and news aggregator developed byl ~' the record did not support this claim as she only provided pictures with a 
foreign langua:e embedded within the picture and an accompanying translation. She did not show that this material 
appeared onl 11 I 
10 Policy Memo at 7 (noting that published material evidence should establish that the circulation is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and should demonstrate the publication's intended audience). 
4 
Additionally, the Petitioner has not shown that audience or viewer figures for a media outlet from 
several years after a piece about her was published should represent that organization's same audience 
from years earlier. 11 Moreover, the Petitioner presented circulation statistics for some parent 
organizations, rather than the entity that actually published material about her without explaining why 
we should recognize the parent's circulation as the subordinate entity's figures.12 Ultimately, she did 
not show how her overall media coverage was indicative of a level of success being among that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 13 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the media reporting on her and her activities reflected a career of acclaimed work in the 
field. 14 
Although we did not agree with the Director as it relates to the Petitioner's judging experience under the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), it does not appear that she has met the high standard of this 
classification in this final merits determination. While the focus of the Director's analysis under the 
individual criterion did not apply at that stage of the adjudication, much of it is applicable here and 
the weaknesses the Director identified appear to establish that the Petitioner's record of judging falls 
short of the expectations associated with this highly restrictive visa classification. We note that much 
of the evidence under this category was in a foreign language and, as the Director noted, it wasn't 
accompanied by translations as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) and the Petitioner 
has not remedied that on appeal. 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner claims that she judged the work of professional-level photographers. 
The record does not bear out what level of candidates the Petitioner judged other than to reflect that 
she judged material from "a selection of international photographers .... " The Petitioner's judging 
experience is a relevant consideration as to whether the evidence is indicative of the Beneficiary's national 
or international acclaim. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. Her experience consists of one competition 
limited to photographers utilizing a certain type of phone camera (i.e., an~--------~ 
smartphone), and two competitions from "a selection of international photographers" at an unspecified 
career level. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she 
has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in her field, the 
Petitioner has not shown that her judging experience places her among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 15 
As noted above, the Petitioner provided evidence satisfying the display criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As it is expected that a photographer, such as the Petitioner, would show her work at 
exhibitions and other events, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of her work is reflective of 
acclaim consistent with this highly restrictive classification. We will consider the prestige of both the 
venues and the exhibitions in which she participated. Although the Petitioner's work was displayed at a 
11 This applies to following media outlets where the publication or entity published material about the Petitioner several 
years before the circulation statistics she provided: Gacha Magazine; TVBS News; Art Trade Journal; IPPA Apple Dai~v; 
and FLiPERmag.com. 
12 For Global Views Monthly Magazine and Gacha Magazine the Petitioner only provided statistics for the parent entity, 
and not for these two publications. 
13 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
14 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
15 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
5 
few intermediate venues, her showings largely consisted of small and local events. She did not establish 
that these are considered prestigious or popular settings, or that her exhibitions garnered attention in a 
manner consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Further, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that her performances brought praise from critics, drew notable crowds, or raised attendance. 
Without evidence distinguishing the Petitioner's shows from others in her field, she has not shown that 
she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."16 
Regarding the documentation submitted for the category of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the 
Petitioner presented three organizations, but failed to demonstrate that she: ( 1) performed in a leading or 
critical role for every organization, and (2) that each entity enjoyed a distinguished reputation. Although 
I I has a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner did not show that she performed in a qualifying role 
for this organization as a whole versus for a smaller entity within the company. To illustrate, within the 
initial filing the Petitioner stated that "she was essential to the success of the~ [sic] I I 
campaigns. As a result of her photography for this campaign, the social media page gained hundreds of 
new followers and provided the company with more exposure." 
The Petitioner has not illustrated how playing a part in an advertisement campaign for a line of 
smartphones is impactful on an entire organization that is a multinational computer hardware and 
consumer electronics company. Nor has she substantiated how this accomplishment shows that she has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage who have risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her leading or critical role does 
not have to be for the distinguished organization as a whole. First, this position is contrary to multiple 
federal court decisions on this topic. 17 Additionally, performing in a role for a subordinate entity that 
itself does not enjoy a distinguished reputation falls short of the high standard applicable when 
considering whether the Petitioner is among those at the top of her field of endeavor. 
In addition tol l the Petitioner claims the role she performed for I I. This entity began 
as an art gallery in 2010 and expanded into design furniture specializing inl !design. The 
correspondence from this organization primarily discussed how the Petitioner performed in important 
roles for the business but does not demonstrate that the organization has a distinguished reputation. The 
Petitioner only offered articles that discussed her work being displayed at this organization, but none that 
establish this entity is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 18 Performing in a leading or critical 
role for an organization that does not itself have a distinguished reputation does not substantiate her 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
Similarly, the Petitioner offered letters froml I a cosmetic company started in 2015. The 
letters from this entity also do not establish that this organization is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. The correspondence from I the company's founder, repeatedly mentions their great 
reputation, but did not explain how they attained that reputation since their founding in 2015 other than 
through financial success. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that this organization's unsubstantiated 
level of financial success should be considered to have earned it a distinguish reputation. The 
16 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(2). 
17 Evidence relating to this requirement must provide specifics relating to how the Petitioner's role was critical to the 
organization as a whole. Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. 
May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535,545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
18 Policy Memo, supra at 10--11. 
6 
documentation the Petitioner submitted does not indicate that she is one of that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of her field. 
Finally, we tum to whether the record reflects the Petitioner has earned a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration consistent with this restrictive visa classification. First, we note the Petitioner provided 
compensation figures for two currencies; U.S. dollars and Taiwan dollars. She only demonstrated that 
she earned compensation in the form of Taiwan dollars through her translated Taiwanese income tax 
returns. USCIS policy provides that "[ a ]liens working in different countries should be evaluated based 
on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply converting the salary 
to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States." We 
note that the Petitioner did not offer any material relating to salaries or remuneration for art directors or 
photographers in Taiwan. Consequently, the Petitioner's comparisons to earnings data for the United 
States is not in compliance with agency policy. 
Alternatively, we note a statement within a letter from the Taiwanese company! l that they paid the 
Petitioner 200 U.S. dollars per hour for her work, and this was significantly higher than the average hourly 
wage for the Art Directors profile found in the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, 
Occupational Outlook Handbook. The Petitioner has not shown that this one instance of hourly earnings 
should equate to that same wage allocated at an annual rate. We do not extrapolate this one instance of 
eight hours of work (resulting in 50,000 Taiwan dollars on the Petitioner's 2016 income tax returns, or 
approximately $1,621 in U.S. currency) to an equivalent annual salary. And even if we were to make 
such a presumption, one instance of being well-paid for work in the field is not representative of sustained 
acclaim on a national or international level. The Petitioner has not provided information that establishes 
her earnings as reflective "of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 19 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that she has received attention 
from those in her field. However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and 
achievements, the level of her national or international acclaim and the extent to which her achievements 
have been recognized in the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, she has not 
submitted extensive documentation exhibiting she has attained a level of expertise placing her among that 
small percentage that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
19 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10891868 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an industrial engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his undergraduate degree fromOUniversity in I [. After 
moving to the United Star to pursT his Master of Pine Arts degree.~ " I he 
was accepted to intern at in 2012. Prior to completing his internship, he was offered a 
permanent position with where he continues to work today. He currently holds the 
nonimmigrant status of an individual with an extraordinary ability in the arts. 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to have met six criteria before the Director, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about 
his work and the display of his work, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or 
awards; contributions of major significance; leading or critical role; and high salary or remuneration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets each of the criteria upon which the Director issued 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
an adverse determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner has satisfied the published material and display criteria. Additionally, we conclude 
that he has also satisfied the prizes or awards and the leading or critical role criteria. As the Petitioner 
has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will also evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination farther below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided two achievements in his field and material associated with those accolades. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, 
the record supports the Petitioner's eligibility claims related to this requirement because he showed 
that he was the recipient of two awards, which were nationally recognized prizes for excellence in his 
field. We do not agree with the Director that due to some minor limitations on each competition's 
participants, that these achievements did not constitute a prize or an award under the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. As a result, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets this 
criterion's mandatory elements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner claims he has submitted evidence of significant contributions to the field of industrial 
design. In support of his claims, he identifies several letters from those in his field, patents, and 
lectures he delivered to institutions of higher learning, all of which illustrate how his innovative and 
award-winning designs have impacted the U.S. market in certain areas and his field in general. To 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a 
petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
The Director determined that the advisory letters of support from those in the Petitioner's field were 
insufficient to meet this criterion.6 We agree with the Director's determination as the letters do not 
offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating 
documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the Petitioner has made 
to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
there are errors within the Director's statements. In particular, the Petitioner took issue with the 
Director's declaration that letters he solicited are not presumptive evidence of eligibility, and that this 
correspondence cannot form the cornerstone of an extraordinary ability claim. The Petitioner states 
that several letters he submitted were not solicited and that these letters were not the sole evidence 
offered under this criterion. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (Policy Memo) (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
We note a common deficiency within each of the letters as they expressed a great respect for the 
Petitioner's work, abilities, and achievements, yet none sufficiently explained how any of his original 
contributions have been of major significance in the field. Nor does the Petitioner make such an 
argument within an of his correspondence throughout these proceedings. We begin with the letter 
from a design research manager currently working a~ I and formerly atl I 
.,...._ _ ____.~w_,here the Petitioner worked withl I through his employer. Even though D 
.__ __ ____. stated that the Petitioner's contributions to certain projects were significant, that he is 
detailed in his work, and that he is a designer capable of delivering outstanding results, she offered no 
discemable contribution he has made to the field of industrial design. Similarly, thel I 
CEO's letter boasts of his abilities and asserts that the Petitioner's capabilities are of vital importance 
to the industry but does not explain how his work has impacted the field. 
Likewise] I the executive director at.___--r---,,-----------------' 
asserted that the Petitioner is among a select class of industrial designers, he possesses 
outstanding talent, the equipment he designed fo ~---~.__ _ ___,, and other achievements reach 
and evocative user interactivity, and that he has already made a tremendous contribution to the design 
community. However,! I did not explain how any of these original contributions were of 
major significance. 
Other advisory letters such as the correspondence fro editor at large for ~I __ __. 
discussed unigue and award-winnin.!?i work such as the Petitioner' .__ _____ ___. design, and the I I designed inl ] but doesn't explain what impact those contributions have had in 
the Petitioner's field.7 Also,~-------~the lead designer atl lnoted that the 
Petitioner designed and implemented many ideas and concepts that would eventually materialize into 
a major manufacturable product that have innovated and redefined the computer market in the United 
States and worldwide. However, he did not identify any such ideas and concepts. I I did 
not explain how the Petitioner has significantly contributed to the field. 
When considered collectively, the letters the Petitioner presented contain uncorroborated assertions 
relating to his impact within the field. Absent are indications of his influence on other industrial 
designers working in the field and suggestions of how the field has been impacted as a result of his 
work. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by 
sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 8 Additionally, we are not required to accept primarily 
conclusory assertions of eligibility.9 The Petitioner must have demonstrably impacted his field in 
order to meet this regulatory criterion.10 
Regarding the lectures he performed at important design-oriented universities, the Petitioner presented 
several letters from those representing the institutions. A common theme among the letters reflected 
how the Petitioner offered information to a small number of students relating to how the actual design 
practice occurs in the business world. Lacking from the record is any indication the Petitioner's 
7 We also note that the Petitioner'd I designs were covered through media outlets, but none appear to have 
detailed how either apparatus significantly contributed to the industrial design field. 
8 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206, 213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
9 Policy Memo at 8-9. 
10 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
4 
lectures or the business processes he shared with the pupils had any reach beyond a small number of 
students. For instance, there is no indication that any of the Petitioner's speeches or information from 
any speech was widely distributed among the field of industrial designers and somehow had an impact 
within the industry such that it rises to the level of a contribution of major significance. Additionally, 
the Petitioner has not explained how providing speeches to future industrial designers made an impact 
within his field sufficient to satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
Turning to patents in which the Petitioner was listed as one of the inventors, while these may 
demonstrate originality, the record lacks an explanation of how any of those patents made any impact 
in the Petitioner's field of industrial design. We have previously stated that a patent is not necessarily 
evidence of a track record of success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole. 11 Rather, 
the significance of the innovation must be determined on a case-by-case basis.12 The Petitioner's U.S. 
patents are assigned to various companies. The record does not demonstrate that the individual 
companies have licensed the inventions and that the accessory has been widely implemented in the 
field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established the impact of any patented devices. 
The Petitioner does not explain how the evidence he submitted demonstrates he is made contributions 
of major significance to his field. That he may have created original work that resulted in some product 
design enhancements falls far short of satisfying the standard here and he has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims that he performed in a critical role for his employer,! I as well as its 
clientsJ I andl I The Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
comply with the requirements of this criterion. The Director focused on a lack of evidence that he 
performed in a qualifying role for the organizations as a whole, as well as not demonstrating thatl I D is a qualifying organization. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the 
Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather 
than for a subordinate group.13 The Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the 
role was critical for organizations or establishments as a whole. The Petitioner must demonstrate that the 
organizations or establishments have a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that organizations 
or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."14 The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
11 See Strategati, LLCv. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019). See 
also Matter of New York State Dep't. ofTransp., 22 T&N Dec. 215,221 n.7, (Comm'r 1998) (even though this decision 
was vacated as it relates to adopting a new framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions, the comparative 
analysis relating to patents remains valid and pertinent to this case). 
12 Id. 
13 See Strategati, LLC, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7; Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 
535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
14 Policy Memo at 10-11. 
5 
The Petitioner has satisfied the plain language requirements of this criterion through his roles performed 
fo~ I an industrial design company based inl I The Petitioner has worked for this 
organization since 2012 and rose to the creative director and lead designer positions within the company. 
Within that role, the Petitioner has performed high-level work for the compan~ntemational clients 
designing I I task chairs,I I. a c=Jbottle opener, and parts forl_J equipment. While 
the Petitioner did not establish wherd I ranks among its competitors, he did demonstrate that the 
company has received awards such as thre~._ _ ___.pwards, one award from Time Magazine International, 
and another from ID Magazine. This satisfies this criterion's requirements. 
Although the Petitioner may have met the requirements for this criterion based on his em lo er he did 
not demonstrate he performed in a qualifying role for eithetj I or L_ _ _,-____ ___.__._A=s:......:.;it 
relates tnl Jori ~' the Petitioner prov' ers from I I described several of the Petitioner's designs tha has incor._p_o_ra_t_e_d-in_t_o_c_e_rt_a_.in 
lines of its smaller I f equipment. However,.__ ____ __. holds the title of "Product 
Engineer/Industrial Designer" and it is not apparent that he holds the authority within the~I ---~ 
organization to make statements relating to the extent that the Petitioner's role was influential for the 
entirety of that company's success or maintenance of their position within their industry. For instance, 
he is not a senior designer within the organization, nor the head of a major department. For evidence that 
weighs so heavily upon eligibility, it should originate from an authorized individual within the company. 
We further note that the record lacks probative evidence to corroborate I I's statements as 
they relate to the critical role the Petitioner performed for this multinational conglomerate. Therefore, the 
material relating td I carries diminished evidentiary value in these proceedings. 
Regarding! l as their manager of technology and design,! I penned a 
letter in which he claimed the Petitioner led the design and development of the firstl I in 
I I's history specifically designed for infants and toddlers between the ares of zero and two years 
old. We note the record does not contain evidence to corroborate this assertion._ I also claimed 
that thisl !"further created a life-long trustworthiness to the company amongst our customers." 
Documentary evidence of this level of brand loyalty was not submitted to support! ts assertion. 
Such statements made without supporting documentation are of limited probative value and are 
insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. 15 Although! I described the Petitioner's 
role in designing this and other items for the company, and offered current and projected sales figures, he 
did not demonstrate how those figures impacted the.__ ______ _. organization as a whole. 
Ultimately, the Petitioner did not "establish that [he] has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities."16 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion based on his role atl l he has not shown that his role was qualifying for the other 
claimed organizations. 
15 MatterofSoffici. 22 l&NDec. 158. 165 (Comm'r 1998). 
16 Policy Memo at 10. 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner provided several Internal Revenue Service (IRS) documents, Form 1099-MISC, 
Miscellaneous Income for the tax year 2018 and wage data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 
Linkedin, and coroflot.com. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. 
The Petitioner does not identify any particular error on the Director's part other than to disagree with 
his decision under this criterion. A review of the Petitioner's 2018 IRS Forms 1099-MISC reflected 
he earned wages froml I ($71,559.36); I t$7,330); I I I I ($1,610);1 ($8,820); andl I 
($1,340). The Petitioner's total earnings from the material in the record for 2018 was approximately 
$90,660. However, the Petitioner only submitted a letter froml I to demonstrate what type of 
work he performed in return for the compensation listed on the IRS forms. As a result, the Petitioner 
has only demonstrated that he earned roughly $71,560 for his work in the industrial design field. 
Demonstrating the type of work he performed for the compensation is required as he must demonstrate 
that he "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field."17 It is unclear how compensation the Petitioner receives, that is unrelated to his 
field of endeavor, should factor into our analysis under this criterion. 
Additionall , comparing his earnings to the mean or median salaries for those performing similar work 
in the area does not demonstrate his salary was high. This is especially the case when his 
earnings fro ~--~($71,560) were approximately $3,000 less than the mean salary in his area of 
the country according to the BLS data assigned to the standard occupational code 27-1021 Commercial 
and Industrial Designers. Moreover, average salary statistics do not provide a proper basis in which 
to compare to the Petitioner's figures, as he must show compensation "in relation to others in the field" 
performing similar work. 18 The record is void of objective earnings data showing that the Petitioner 
has earned a "high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing 
similar work during the same time period. 19 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his evidence satisfies the minimum number of eligibility 
criteria and we will perform a final merits determination considering all of his claims and 
achievements collectively. 
17 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
18 Strategati, LLC, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (in which the court agreed that average salary 
levels do not allow for an appropriate basis for comparison in determining a high salary "in relation to others in the field"). 
19 See Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 
F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
7 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 20 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
Over a six-year period before he filed this petition, the Petitioner has built a career in his field and has 
gained recognition. He won a prominent industrial design award, has designed products for 
well-known companies, and his work has been recognized in national publications. 
Although we did not agree with the Director as it relates to the Petitioner's prizes or awards under the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we conclude that the Petitioner has not met the high standard of 
this cate or in this final merits determination. His awards consisted of the "established" category for 
the 2016L_ ______ --;---;Design Competition and the 20111 !challenge Design 
award. As it relates to the 201 .__ _ __,award, the only requirement was for the competitor's business 
or professional career to consist of three years of experience and it required an entry fee. This award 
received national-level attention on a Canadian news website. The 2011 I I Challenge Design 
award recognized the Petitioner's efforts in this design competition at the I I 
International Auto Show, and his receipt of this award received national-level attention inl I 
publications. Despite these achievements occurring at a notable level, these awards are not sufficiently 
representative of sustained acclaim nor are so few accolades indicative of the very high standard to 
present more extensive documentation. 21 
Published material covering the Petitioner and his work first appeared in 2016 in a national-level 
publication in Canada relating to one of his awards. In the subsequent years through 2019, other 
national media have focused on three of the Petitioner's other designs. Although he has garnered some 
media attention relating to his life stof, suc1 as the interview with a publication froml I the 
bulk of the material related to his 2016 award and jewelry he designed. However, the Petitioner 
did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success and being among that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 22 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflected a "career of acclaimed 
work" in the field or the high standard to present extensive documentation. 23 
As we detailed above, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence demonstrating that he satisfied 
the original contributions of major significance requirements. The advisory letters commented on his 
20 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
Policy Memo at 4 (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in 
its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of 
expe1iise of the immigrant classification). 
21 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). 
22 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
23 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). 
8 
work without showing how that work represented an individual whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. While the Petitioner has shown that he has 
created original work, the simple aspect that this work was "original"-in that it did not merely duplicate 
prior designs-is not useful in setting him apart through a "career of acclaimed work." The level at which 
the Petitioner's contributions have impacted his field, as a whole, is a predominant factor as to whether 
he is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and has sustained 
national or international acclaim at such an elevated level. 
The Petitioner met the minimum regulatory requirements under the leading or critical role criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on one organization; however, his arguments fell short of illustrating 
such a qualifying role under two other companies. Although the Petitioner claimed his contributions 
as a designer to these organizations have resulted in patents and significant increases in sales, he did 
not produce probative evidence to corroborate this claim relating to sales, and also did not show what 
level of impact those sales had on the respective organizations. The documentation submitted by the 
Petitioner is not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise 
indicating that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner's demonstrated earnings within his relative field were below average, which falls far short 
of illustrating that he enjoys the status as one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
their field of endeavor. Even if his compensation would have been at a much higher level, the Petitioner 
only provided earnings data for a single year and this would not be illustrative of the requisite acclaim at 
a sustained level. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 24 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that during his six years of 
professional work, he has not yet assembled achievements at a level which would qualify him for this 
classification, but instead he appears to be well within the beginning stages of such an acclaimed 
career. Considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his national 
or international acclaim and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field are 
not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive documentation 
exhibiting he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
24 Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904736 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 4, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete and instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete and instructor in the disciplines ofwushu and tai chi. The record 
reflects that he intends to work as a martial arts instructor in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; and 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the three claimed criteria, relating to judging the 
work of others. The record supports that conclusion, as it contains evidence of the Petitioner's judging 
credentials as well as documentation of his participation as a judge at martial arts events in the United 
States and China. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or mischaracterized certain evidence and 
erroneously determined that he does not meet the criteria relating to nationally or internationally 
recognized awards and membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their 
members. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore, he 
does not satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner submitted more than award 20 certificates that he received in the following martial arts 
competitions: 
• 1995 -I 
I I National Wushu Competition ~I __ ~I Team Competition); 
F-'" ........ u.a...._--,. __ ..---'--"'-'-'-'LI.L.1.1..u,,tition; First~P_la_c_d~-------------~ • 
• 1998 - Province ~I ---~I Wushu Combat Competition; 
• 2004 -The Wushu Championships; First place,,.__ ______ ....,. 
Group D 
• 2005 -National Wushu & Tai Chi Championships; First place.__ _______ ____. 
'~'--------'-""'""" .................................... ...........,~hu Communication Competition; First place~I ___ ~ 
.__ ___ __.International Kung Fu Festival! !Event; (certificate does not 
• 2008 ~ I Traditional Wushu Competition; Second place,'---------~ ident16fy; e award received) 
Grou 
• 2010 -International Tai Chi Communication Contes · First Place[ I I I GroupOand First Place , GroupD 
• 2010 -China International Wushu Communication Conference,__ __ ~; First place in□ 
• 2011 Cup Competition; First place in D 
• 2011 Cu Province First Wushu Competition; First 
place i11---7--~------J(Male, group 
• 2012- tional Wushu Competition; Gold Award, Male I ~ Grou and Mal GrouO ,___~ 
• 2012 { I Sports Competition; First plac~J I 
• 2013 ~ lwushu Competition; First place,I IMale GroutU 
In addition to the award certificates, the Petitioner submitted several recommendation letters, some of 
which include statements about the significance of specific awards he received. For example, a letter 
from,__ _________ ~USA Wushu-Kungfo Federation, Inc. (USA WKF), refers to the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
Petitioner's 1995 'I !Award in National Wushu Championships."2 He states that this 
award "is the highest level martial arts competition in China" and "one of the most prestigious honors 
in the field of martial arts." He also describes the 2010 CHINA International Wushu Communication 
Conference as "one of the most influential Wushu events in the world," and "one of the largest and 
most influential sports events in the world of martial arts." However, his statements about the 
significance of these awards are general and not sufficient to establish that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes in the sport, especially given that the record contains no 
additional background information or evidence related to these two competitions. 
In addition.I lnotes that the Petitioner's first place award in thd I Wushu 
Championships in 2004 "clearly demonstrates that he has reached the highest level in the field of 
martial arts." He indicates that, as a result of this achievement, the Petitioner "became a first Class 
Athlete" a title granted by the National Sports Central Agency of China pursuant to China's "National 
Athlete System." We note that while the record contains a "Certificate ofNational First Class Athlete" 
issued by the General Administration of Sports of China, the certificate was issued in 1983 when the 
Petitioner was nine years old, and states that it was granted on the basis of a first place award in 
"National Wushu Trial" held in October 1982 when he was eight years old. As noted above, the 
Petitioner's evidence submitted in support of this criterion dated back to 1995; he has not documented 
any events in which he competed in the 1980s. The Petitioner must resolve this ambiguity in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). If the Petitioner was in fact granted this "Certificate of National First Class 
Athlete" as a child in 1983, it was not as a result of his first place finish in the 2004 I I I lwushu Championships as stated b~ I 
In addition to the award certificates and recommendation letters, 3 the Petitioner provided background 
information regarding a few of the events in which he competed. This evidence included: a screenshot 
from the website of the Chinese Wushu Association announcing the ~-------~Wushu 
Championships; a screenshot from the website www.samlau-wingchun.com w~icb includes 
photographs from "International Kung Fu Festival," which may refer to the 2008 I 
International Kung Fu Festival I I event; and screenshots from the website of the 
International Combat Association (ICA), which was the organizer or sponsor of the 2010 CHINA 
International Wushu Communication Conference. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence was 
insufficient to establish that the awards he received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards in his sport. The Director requested that the Petitioner submit evidence such as national or 
international media coverage of the prizes or awards, information regarding other prize winners, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the number of prizes granted each year, and the geographic 
scope of the competitions. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner re-submitted some of the initial evidence relating to this 
criterion. In his cover letter, he emphasized his first-place award in Men's I I at theLJ 
~ I refers to this 1995 competition as "the National Wushu Cham]ionships" organized by "the National Sports 
Commission." but the award certificate refers to it as 1 _National Wushu Competition," organized by 
"National Sports Competitiod !Division." 
3 While we do not address all of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
I lwushu Championships in 2004 and his title of "National First Class Athlete." The 
Petitioner referenced a letter from I I and quoted him as stating that "[ t ]he.__ _____ ___, 
Wushu Championships is ... reputed and famed as the Olympic Games of Martial Arts." The record 
contains only one letter froml k dated September 7, 2019) and the quoted statement does not 
appear in that letter. 
The Petitioner also emphasizedl ts statement regarding his "First Class Athlete Certificate," 
noting that "the National Athlete system is an officially hierarchical system formulated to evaluate the 
professional level of athlete," with the first class being the highest level. As discussed above, the 
certificate the Petitioner submitted was issued when he was eight or nine years old. There is 
insufficient evidence to corroborate that he was competing as a professional athlete at that age or that 
the certificate itself is a nationally recognized prize for excellence. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence 
to establish that the awards he received are nationally or internationally recognized in his sport. The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted some online media coverage regarding thee=] I I Wushu World Championship and the International Kung Fu Festival, but noted that the 
Petitioner but did not establish that the events received major media coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the media coverage he submitted of these events was 
intended to convey "a better understanding about the background and influence of the competition of 
the event itself:" and not intended to satisfy one of the evidentiary criteria that requires published 
materials in major trade publications or other major media, such as 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or (vi). 
He lists the awards he received between 199 5 and 2013 and asserts that he met his burden to show that 
he received lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in his field. 
Upon review of the evidence, we observe that while many of the submitted certificates include the 
words "national" or "international" in the title of the competition, the fact that a competition was open 
to athletes from throughout a particular country or countries does not automatically establish that a 
prize or award from that competition is nationally or internationally recognized. The Director placed 
particular emphasis on media coverage as one form of evidence that may establish whether a given 
prize or award enjoys national or international recognition in the field, but we note that other evidence 
may suffice to establish the required level of recognition. Here, however, the background information 
and objective evidence regarding the competitions in which the Petitioner competed was very limited 
and was not sufficient to establish how the prizes he received qualify as nationally or internationally 
recognized awards. Accordingly, we conclude that this criterion has not been met. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in his 
field, and that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 
Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education or 
5 
experience, or payment of dues or fees do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not 
constitute outstanding achievements. 4 Further, the overall prestige of a given association is not 
determinative; the issue here is membership requirements rather than the association's overall 
reputation. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his membership in seven associations including the Chinese 
Wushu Association (CW A), the China Changan International Taijiquan Association, the Beijing 
Wushu Association, the International Wushu Kung Fu Association, the Wushu Research Institute of 
the Sports General Administration of China, the Asia-Pacific Wushu Association, and the International 
Wushu San Shou Dao Association (IWSD). Although he submitted copies of his membership 
certificates for all seven associations, he provided supporting evidence addressing the membership 
requirements for only two of them -the CW A and the IWSD Association. 
With respect to the CW A, the Petitioner provided: a copy of his membership certificate; a letter from 
CW A .__ ________ __. a screenshot from ChinaCulture.com providing background 
information regarding the CW A; and "Chinese Wushu Association Management Measures" 
describing tr CWA jembership requirements, printed from the CWA's website (wushu.china.cn). 
In his letter~ __ __. identifies the Petitioner as a "senior member" of the CW A and states that 
according to the CWA's Management Measures, "only the people who are 'Chinese Wushu 
Association committee members or winners of martial high spots, or martial arts professional and 
technical personnel with senior titles, or international level or national level martial arts referees' are 
qualified to apply to become a senior member." While this language is repeated in the CWA 
Management Measures, it is unclear how the listed conditions of senior membership equate to 
"outstanding achievements" in the field. The phrases "winners of martial high spots" and 
"professional and technical personnel with senior titles" are not adequately defined. 
In addition, the Petitioner must establish that nationally or internationally recognized experts are 
charged with judging whether a given prospective senior member has outstanding achievements in the 
field. In his letterJ I states that "requests for senior members must be presented directly to the 
CWA and be reviewed by the CWA only," noting that the association "follows a rigorous standard for 
reconsideration; all senior members are highly selected professional martial artists who have 
established significant contributions to the martial arts community and enjoy high reputation." The 
submitted CW A Management Measures reflect that prospective senior members must submit their 
membership enrollment applications directly to the CW A for approval, while ordinary and junior 
members also have the option or submitting their applications "through unit members at all levels" of 
the CW A or directly to the CW A. The CW A Management Measures do not describe the review and 
approval procedures or standards that apply to individual member enrollment applications, nor do they 
identify who within CW A makes final decisions on applications for senior membership. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
6 
With respect to the IWSD Association, the Petitioner submitted his membership certificate issued in 
2016 and a certificate from the association awarding him a 6th Degree Black Belt in 201 7. The 
Petitioner also submitted an overview of the IWSD Association's ranking methodology for black belts 
from its website, but this evidence does not discuss the association's membership requirements, 
indicate whether "outstanding achievements" are a condition of membership, or state whether the 
process for admission of members involves judging by recognized national or international experts. 
The information provided indicates that "[ o ]nly the well-rounded practitioners with exceptional 
knowledge and skills are granted black belt status," but it is unclear whether "membership" and "black 
belt status" are evaluated based on the same criteria. The Petitioner's membership certificate does not 
mention his belt ranking or the type of membership he was granted. A letter from IWSD Association I lstates that the Petitioner "was awarded the 6th Level Black Belt because he 
is an outstanding and prominent practitioner in the martial arts community with remarkable 
contributions to the promotion of martial art around the world." However, he was granted membership 
in IWSD Association prior to achieving this level and the association's specific membership 
requirements and its review processes and procedures have not been documented in the record. 
The Director determined that the evidence the Petitioner submitted at the time of filing and in response 
to the RFE "does not provide any information to establish that the individuals who review prospective 
members' applications are recognized as national or international experts in their disciplines or fields 
and the section of the associations' constitution or bylaws which discuss the qualifications required by 
the review panel of the association." With respect to the CWA, the Director also observed that 
"membership dues are a requirement for membership." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his membership in CWA satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii); he does not address IWSD or the other associations in which he is a member. The 
Petitioner asserts that the Director determined that he did not meet this criterion because the CW A 
requires payment of membership dues and argues that the Director's decision was incorrect. He 
emphasizes that, while all members must pay dues, this is not the only condition for membership as 
implied by the Director's statement. He refers to the previously submitted CWA Management 
Measures in support of his assertion that "[ t ]he CW A requires outstanding achievement in an area of 
martial arts as an essential condition for admission to membership" and states that "only the top 
candidates, at the discretion of the CWA are actually invited and selected for membership." 
While the Petitioner is correct in his assertion that an association that requires payment of membership 
dues may also require outstanding achievements as a condition of membership, he has not met his 
burden to establish that his membership in CWA meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). As already discussed, the CW A Management Measures only vaguely describe the 
requirements for senior membership and do not sufficiently support the Petitioner's claim that 
outstanding achievements in martial arts are an essential requirement for membership. Moreover, the 
Director also emphasized that the evidence submitted regarding CW A and other associations in which 
the Petitioner is a member does not demonstrate that the persons judging or reviewing membership 
applications are recognized national or international experts in the field. With respect to the CW A, 
the evidence simply indicates that applications for membership are submitted to "the CW A" for 
approval. While the Petitioner indicates that it is a discretionary decision, and thus implies a level of 
judging, the record does not establish who performs this judging, what their qualifications are, or 
7 
whether those who review membership applications are national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12965137 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an agricultural products and services company , seeks classification of the Beneficiary 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is currently employed by the Petitioner as an agricultural data scientist. She earned a 
master's degree in agricultural meteorology froml !university in 2013, and a Ph.D. degree in 
agricultural meteorology and agronomy from the same institution in 201 7. The Petitioner indicates 
that it intends to continue to employ the Beneficiary in the United States to develop crop simulation 
platforms. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met two 
of these criteria relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a judge of the 
work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets four 
additional evidentiary criteria, has sustained national or international acclaim, and is one of the small 
percentage of those at the top of her field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree 
with the Director and find that the Beneficiary does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements of 
this classification and is not an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that material has been published, 
that the material is about the alien and his or her work in the field for which classification is sought, 
and that it was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In this 
case, the Petitioner initially submitted two articles about research on crop models in which the 
Beneficiary participated. The first article, posted on the website of1 I University, discusses the 
work of the school's researchers as part of the~----------- project, and includes a 
2 
single sentence identifying the Beneficiary and another in which she describes the applications of this 
work. However, the totality of this published material is about the research, not the Beneficiary. The 
second article, published on the website farmweeknow.com, is an edited version of the first article. It 
does not include the Beneficiary's information or quotation, and is similarly not about her. In addition, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence which demonstrates that either of these websites are one of the 
qualifying types of media under this criterion. 
In responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted chapters of a 
monograph published by the American Meteorological Society Roth chf.pters include citations to a 
paper about the ~-----~ dataset added to the I surface model, which was 
authored by the Beneficiary and published in a scientific journal in 2016. Although both chapters 
include brief descriptions and comments on the Beneficiary's work, they also discuss the work of 
hundreds of other scientists who published articles in the area of atmospheric sciences, the broad 
subject of the monograph. In addition, although she is identified as an author in each of these citations, 
following the accepted format for citations, the chapters do not provide any additional information 
about the Beneficiary, and thus cannot be said to be about her. Therefore, after review of the evidence 
submitted in support if this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes emails from scientific journals such as Agronomy, Sustainability, and Journal of 
the Meteorological Society of Japan thanking the Beneficiary for her review of manuscripts submitted 
to them for publication. We note that other emails in the record from journals which invite the 
Beneficiary to review manuscripts do not show that she actually judged the work of others. Based on 
the evidence of the peer reviews that the Beneficiary completed, however, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged that the evidence, including reference letters, citations to 
the Beneficiary's publications, and other evidence, shows the Beneficiary's contribution to the I I model and theO project, but concluded that it did not demonstrate that this 
work was original or was of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
preponderance of the evidence, including 14 reference letters from experts in the Beneficiary's field, 
shows that her contributions are both original and of major significance, as herl I 
models are in use by researchers and agricultural managers in more than 160 countries. 
3 
We first note that the evidence of the Beneficiary's publications and abstracts presented at scientific 
conferences, as well as the evidence of her contributions to weather and crop models, shows that her 
work in the field is original. We will therefore focus on whether the Petitioner has shown that these 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 
Of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, several were written by scientists the Beneficiary 
collaborated or otherwise worked directly with. 1 In general, such letters may provide details regarding 
her role in specific research projects, but do not demonstrate that this work was been of ma·or 
significance t ~ d beyond her group of collaborators. A letter from.__...,---,_ ______ __. 
a professor a1 ~-_ ................................... ~ocuses on the Beneficiary's work on the project durin~ 
studies there. ~-----.---...----~ states that the Beneficiary was one of the project's leadl__J 
modelers, and that th ~--~ dataset she developed, based upon a NASA framework, allowed for 
regional-scale modeling studies and "filled the gaps in historical observations." She farther writes 
that this work "enables farther studies on assessing thel lrisks at a larger spatial scale," and that 
thQ project as a whole "was featured in over 170 trade and popular press articles." 
The Beneficiary's graduate advisor atl II I also submitted a reference letter 
describing her work and its impact on the field. He goes into great detail about the Benefici~s work\ 
to develop aD_m.odeling framework, and her adaptation of the NASA framework fo 
models into herLJ modeling framework. I I also describes her work on the 
c=J..m..odel as ::i "breakthrough contribution," as it emphasized the interaction between L__J and allows th9 I model "to develop C7 feedback data more 
accurately." Finally, he notes that the Beneficiary's introduction o~ !information 
into I I improved! I simulation by 20%. 
~------~I of the National Center fo~ ,I where the Beneficiary worked 
for three summers durin9 her studies, is another of the Beneficiary's collaborators and also describes 
her development of thel_ I model, which he states "improves the~------~ 
forecasting for(gricullral areas." He also writes that thd lmodel "is the world's most widely 
used numerica prediction model and has more than 20,000 active users ... "2 
Other reference letters were written by other researchers who know of the Beneficiary's work, 
including some who have cited to it in their own published research. One of these was submitted by I lof the National Institute of Technology! lin India. He states 
that his group "referred [the Beneficiary's] assessment of a high spatial resolution! I 
dataset," and that they "leveraged" her techniques in developing a dataset for thel I 
region. He concludes that the Beneficiary's research "provides a reliable reference for international 
researchers." 
.__ ____________ ___,of I I University also states that she has cited to the 
Beneficiary's published research in her own work, noting that she did so in a review article "as an 
example of the efforts that enhanced the representation of agriculture." She also indicates that she 
1 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
2 Other evidence in the record puts the number of users at 48,000. 
4 
attended a workshop in France where the Beneficiary presented her work in the~project, which 
provides "useful datasets/tools and a solid ground for future researchers and agricultural producers." 
Another researcher who cited to the Beneficiar's work isl lof the University of I I in Canada, who notes that the L I model developed by the Beneficiary 
"takes account of varieties and field mana ement information" and was implemented into the 
and version 3.9 and provides 
"improved representation and simulation of surface conditions.".__ ___ __.also states that 
besides improving the accuracy o~ I forecasts, the model can be used to study the impact of 
.__ ______ __. od I She indicates that her team was able to add additional! I 
to the framework developed by the Beneficiary. 
These letters demonstrate that the Petitioner added valuable functionality to an existing numerical 
I I model, and provided useful tools related tol ~ for agricultural producers and 
researchers. Although other researchers have been able to build upon and apply this work in their own 
research, the record does not support the statements in these letters which proclaim her work to be a 
breakthrough or otherwise show that it has been of major significance. 
For example, althdugh mry of the letter writers agree that the addition ofi I improved 
the accuracy of th model, the complete page from the~ Users Page website3 showing the 
updates in version 3. 9 includes many updates in addition to those to which the Beneficiary contributed. 
As stated in the Director's decision, theBmodel was released several years prior to the addition 
of the Beneficiary's updates, and the Users Page indicates that many researchers have 
contributed to its improvement over those years. This is also shown by a page on the website for the 
University Corporation for Atmospheric research (UCAR) describing thd ,I which lists 
the Beneficiary' sDmodel as one of several "new parameterizations" added. While the letters show 
that her contributions to an already popula~ I model have been implemented by others, the 
evidence does not establish that the extent to which they have done so is indicative of a contribution 
of major significance. 
Turning to the Beneficiary's work on thO project, evidence in the record shows that the tools 
developed were used to support decisions on over 15.5 million acres ofl land resulted in the 
publication of 50 peer-reviewed journal articles . .__ _______ _.who served as thQproject 
manager for the six years of its existence, writes that the project "significantly improves the usability 
oft !information for agricultural production," and that the Beneficiary "made essential 
contributions to the project." However, the Beneficiary's field is.__ _____ ---.-, modeling or 
agricultural data science, and thus it is her impact upon others in that field rather than agricultural 
production that must be demonstrated. Statements from some of the other letters indicate that the 
Beneficiary's work allowed forl I modeling and resulted in conference presentations 
and journal articles, but the evidence does not indicate that it widely impacted other researchers in her 
field. 
As noted by the Director in his decision, the record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's Google 
Scholar profile showing her publications and presentations and the number of times they have been 
3 The record includes only a portion of this webpage, available at https 1 1 .__ ______________ __. 
5 
cited by other researchers. This evidence corroborates the statements from some of the letter writers 
concerning their citation of her work, but does not provide a basis for comparison to other researchers 
in her field by which the extent of the impact of the Beneficiary's work may be determined. Without 
such evidence, we do not find that the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary's work on thee=] 
project has remarkably impacted or been implemented in her field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director and do not find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of papers co-authored by the Beneficiary which were published in 
scientific journals such as Earth Interactions, Climate Risk Management, and Geophysical Research 
Letters. We agree with the Director that this evidence shows that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To show that an individual has performed in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they have 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the individual's 
performance in the role is ( or was) important in that way. 4 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that the Beneficiary's 
role as an agricultural data scientist distinguished her from other scientists it employs, and thus that it 
was a critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that this criterion and associated guidance does 
not require that the Beneficiary's role be distinguished from that of other scientists it employs in order 
to show that it is critical. While such evidence may assist in showing the importance of the role to the 
organization's activities, we agree that it is not required. 
In support of its claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted two letters from company officials 
describing the Beneficiary's work and its importance. The first, from a human resources executive, 
explains that that the Beneficiary "reports her scientific discoveries with traders in order to help drive 
market discussions and implement trade ideas," and through her modeling and analysis of agricultural 
systems provides "new opportunities to optimize! land revenue projections." The letter 
goes on to state that she is "the highest-level Data Scientist in our company," and that the real-time I I data provided by her platform is "critical for decision-making in the agribusiness 
sector." 
The second letter, submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), reiterates the 
statements from the first letter, and adds that the Beneficiary's research inl I modeling 
"has significantly advanced our ability to predict commodity trade pricing, which directly impacts 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
With Certain 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 
(Dec. 22, 2010), https:/ /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
~-___.b profitability." It goes on to state that her analysis of.__ ___________ _. is 
included in the company's weekly research reports related to global food supply and demand, and that 
"more than 100 economic analysts and commodity traders" use her analysis to make vital business 
decisions. 
Upon review, this evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary plays a critical role for 
the Petitioner or its parent company J I Although both letters indicate that she provides 
data and analysis that are important for market and trade discussions, and that commodity traders use 
her reports to make decisions, the evidence does not provide sufficient information to determine the 
Beneficiary's individual impact on the Petitioner's or its parent company's overall operations. The 
letters indicate that bot~ land the Petitioner have global operations which span the areas 
of fertilizer supply, processing and transportation of agricultural commodities, production of food 
products and the supply of raw materials and services to the biofoels industry, and the Beneficiary's 
impact in one or several of these activities on a company-wide scale has not been demonstrated. 
Further, the letters do not explain the extent to which her work product is part of a larger team effort 
with other data scientists employed by the Petitioner. As such, we conclude that the evidence does 
not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The evidence includes letters from the Petitioner as well as recent paystubs for the Beneficiary which 
verify her annual salary of $160,000. In addition, the Petitioner submitted salary data from three 
different United States government websites which included national and regional mean and high 
salaries for several occupations it claims approximate or are the same as the Beneficiary's. In his 
decision, the Director found that the data submitted did not pertain to the Beneficiary's occupation 
and did not show what top agricultural data scientists in th~ f area earned, and thus did 
not provide a proper basis of comparison to determine that her salary is high relative to others in her 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that it provided relevant data from sources identified in USCIS 
policy guidance, and that the Beneficiary's salary exceeds the 90th percentile for comparable 
occupations. 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence from the United States Department of Labor's Foreign 
Labor Certification Data Center Online Wage Library (flcdatacenter.com) for the occupation of 
"Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health" in thel I area. That data 
indicated that the "prevailing" or average wage for Level IV workers, or those who are considered 
"folly competent," was $97,739 for the period ending June 2020, and that the mean wage for the 
position corresponded to the average Level III ( for "experienced" workers) wage of $82,139 per year. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional data from the United States 
Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) for this and other positions in 
the state of New York as follows: 
7 
Occupational Title Annual Mean Wage 
Data Scientist and Mathematical Science Occupations $125,170 
Soil and Plant Scientist $80,380 
Environmental Scientists and Specialists $84,080 
Farmers, Ranchers and other Agricultural Managers $100,750 
In addition, the Petitioner also provided occupation profiles from a third website, careeronestop.org, 
which included job descriptions and national annual salary ranges for the following positions: 
• Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health 
• Soil and Plant Scientists 
• Atmospheric and Space Scientists 
• Climate Change Analysts 
• Bioinformatics Scientists 
• Statisticians 
• Farm and Ranch Managers 
We note that average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation 
with different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. Rather, the Petitioner must submit 
documentary evidence of the earnings of those in the Beneficairy's occupation performing similar 
work near the top level of the field. See Matter o_f Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide an occupation profile from the careeronestop.org website for the 
occupation of data scientists, despite providing the OES data for this occupation noted above. The 
description of this occupation 5 provided in the profile states the following: 
Develop and implement a set of techniques or analytics applications to transform raw 
data into meaningful information using data-oriented programming languages and 
visualization software. Apply data mining, data modeling, natural language processing, 
and machine learning to extract and analyze information from large structured and 
unstructured datasets. Visualize, interpret, and report data findings. May create 
dynamic data reports. 
In comparing this job description and those listed above to the description of the Beneficiary's 
agricultural data scientist position provided by the Petitioner, we conclude that this position most 
accurately matches her duties. Notably, the letter provided in response to the Director's RFE explains 
that the Beneficiary "has developed state-of-the-art I I platforms utilizing cutting-edge 
machine learning techniques" as well as data mined from several different sources. It goes on to state 
5 Found at https://www.careeroues1on ornIToo)kjt/Careers/n~cupations/occupation-
profile.aspx?persist=true&keyword=Data%20Scientists&location~....._ _________ ...., &ajax=0&onetcode= 
15205100 and accessed on February 2, 2021. 
8 
that her 'l~-----~lplatform provides real-timeOmonitoring data ... " that she then presents 
in research reports. 
Further, although the occupation profiles submitted by the Petitioner include only national salary data, 
more accurate county data is available at careeronestop.org. This information indicates that for data 
scientists in the I I area, the median wage is $118,740, the 75th percentile wage is 
$152,760, and the 90th percentile wage is $192,240. Although the Beneficiary's salary is therefore 
above average when compared to other data scientists employed in the I I area, this data 
obtained from the same source as the evidence submitted by the Petitioner indicates that her salary is 
not high relative to those similarly situated scientists. Accordingly, we conclude that the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Approval 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
9 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15279075 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cancer researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The Director 
also concluded that, because the Petitioner had not satisfied the necessary criteria, the Petitioner had 
not established that his entry would prospectively benefit prospectively the United States. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 l&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate at University in 2011, and underwent postdoctoral training 
at th ..=-,----.----'University. At the time he filed the petition in 
2018, the Petitioner was a research fellow a In A ril 2019, his fellowship ended but he continued 
to work ate=] as a contractor, employed b 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director initially approved the petition, but then determined that the approval was in error. In a 
notice of intent to revoke and again in the final revocation notice, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the criterion numbered (v). 
1 Following the approval of this petition and the issuance of the notice of intent to revoke its approval, the Petitioner filed 
another immigrant petition on his own behalf, seeking to classify himself as a member of the professions holding an 
advanced degree, with a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement. The November 2020 approval of that petition 
remains in effect. 
2 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two of the 
regulatory criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director relied on an incomplete review of the evidence. In 
particular, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not fully consider letters in the record, and did not 
give sufficient weight to evidence concerning the Petitioner's published work. 
The Petitioner states that "he has regularly published in high-ranking, high-impact journals, 
demonstrating the significance that others in the field have assigned to his work." The publication of the 
Petitioner's articles in reputable journals shows that his work meets the publishers' standards of quality, 
but ultimately those articles must stand on their own merits, rather than by association with particular 
journals or publishers. 
Heavy citation of the Petitioner's published work, relative to others in the field, can help to establish the 
significance of his published work. 2 The Petitioner has submitted citation data at various points in the 
proceeding. Because the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), we will limit discussion to the citation data submitted with the initial filing in November 
2018, specifically a table from Clarivate Analytics. 
The submitted table indicates that citations to four of the Petitioner's articles ranked between the top 10% 
and the top 1 % for their respective years of publication, relative to articles published in the fields of 
"Biology & Biochemistry." Of the Petitioner's five other articles, three ranked between 50% and 20%, 
and one between 20% and 10%. The remaining article was published so near to the table's compilation 
that meaningful data was not yet available; a single citation clears the thresholds for 50%, 20%, and 10%. 
The citation data indicates that some of the Petitioner's published work has attracted attention within the 
field, but not at a level that demonstrates major significance in the field. This issue is particularly evident 
when considering review articles in the record. The Petitioner contends that the citation of his work in 
review articles is evidence of their significance, because review articles "are expressly designed to 
highlight the most important advances in a given area of research." The two submitted review articles do 
not warrant such conclusions about the Petitioner's work. 
One review article contains two citations to the Petitioner's article about "a novel prognostic biomarker." 
One citation identifies the Petitioner's article among examples of"[r]ecent work ... [that] should also be 
encouraged." This reference, while positive, does not highlight the Petitioner's work as being of 
particular significance. The other citation indicates that the Petitioner's "observation needs to be 
confirmed in inde endent validation studies " before oin on to cite an unrelated study with regard to 
2 6 USC1S Policy Manual Part E, retired Adjudicator's Field Manual Chapter 22.2(i)(l)(A), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanuaL 
3 
The other review article includes multiple citations to the Petitioner's work, but several of these citations 
appear to highlight shortcomings rather than single out the Petitioner's research as especially influential 
or significant. Citations to the Petitioner's article appear after the following sentences: 
Accuracy is highly dependent on appropriate data normalization. Unfortunately, no 
definitive housekeeping miRNAs have been established. Small nucleolar RNAs ... , used 
as reference genes in intracellular miRNA-based studies, are not applicable to 
normalization of circulating miRNAs due to their degradation in biofluids which produces 
low or unstable values. 
Current approaches are limited by lack of concordance, data irreproducibility, and 
contradictory results of individual studies. In particular, the most problematic issues 
reflect the scientific limitations of the detection strategies and the paucity of samples in 
validation sets that have not been adequately justified by power analysis. 
The review article's conclusions read: I 
~---~I' Addressing ongoing controversies is an important part of the scientific process, but these 
comments do not indicate that the Petitioner's contributions in this area have been of major significance 
in the field. 
In an effort to provide further perspective into the significance of his work, the Petitioner submits letters 
from researchers who have cited his published work. These individuals explain how the Petitioner's 
publications relate to their own work. Although these individuals describe the Petitioner's research in 
technical detail, they dt not exolaiu bow tbj Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field. For 
example, a professor at~------~Universityl ~ Germany, states: 
[The Petitioner] evaluated,__ ______ _. that had previously been com iled from 
clinical trials. B doing so, he found that the most ideal candidates fo,...._.r _____ -----1 
treatment are lung cancer patients with.__ _____ __. 
In making these findings, [the Petitioner] noted that the 
._e_f-Ie-c-ts_o_f_s_u-ch-t-re_a_tm_e_nt-ar_e____.not worthwhile for patients with I I 
I I levels and that it is more appropriate to treat these patients via alternative 
therapies. As such, [the Petitioner] successfully identified thel I as a I I lung cancer. 
The quoted passage provides details about one of the Petitioner's research projects, and indicates that the 
project is relevant to cancer treatment, but does not specify how, or how much, the findings have had an 
impact on that treatment. For example, the Petitioner does not show the extent to which the findings have 
changed cancer treatment protocols or affected survival rates. Furthermore, the journal article containing 
those findings has 13 authors; the Petitioner's shared credit sheds little light on his specific contributions 
to the study. 
4 
Given the deficiencies in the Petitioner's evidence, we conclude that the petition was approved in error, 
and we agree with the Director's decision to revoke that approval. Detailed discussion of the remaining 
issue, concerning the Petitioner's prospective benefit to the United States, cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has worked at some prestigious 
institutions, but in short-term, low-level, or training capacities. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The 
revocation of the previously approved petition is affirmed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12636294 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a radiology practice, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t1oner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a radiology clinic affiliated with the Universi';l.b==,,--------~-----,-J 
The Beneficiary earned a Ph.D. degree in Biochemist from Universi in 2006, and then held 
postdoctoral positions at I I; the University L------r----,.. ___ _J and the University of I I The Beneficiary then earned an M.D. degree from,_______,University in 2014, and served a 
residency in radiology from 2014 to 2019. From 2019 to 2020, in H-lB nonimmigrant status, the 
Beneficiary undertook a fellowship ib I radiology with I J The Petitioner 
seeks to employ the Beneficiary as an radiologist, and states that the "position ... combines clinical 
treatment with research." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence met only one criterion, numbered (vi), relating 
to authorship of scholarly articles. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that its evidence meets all three 
claimed criteria. 
As discussed below, upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the record establishes 
the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, but does not satisfy the required three criteria. 
1 We note that only one of the Beneficiaiy's articles relates to his current field of radiology. This issue would have merited 
deeper discussion during the final merits determination, had the record warranted proceeding to that stage. 
2 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
Chapter 22.2 of the Adjudicator's Field Manual reads, in pertinent part: 
Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the alien's membership in the 
associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based: 
• Solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field; 
• On the payment of a fee or by subscribing to an association's publications; or 
• On a requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment in certain 
occupations, such as union membership or guild affiliation for actors. 2 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that any organization that requires payment of a membership 
fee "do[ es] not meet the elements of this criterion." This conclusion derives from an incomplete reading 
of the Manual. Organizations for which the only membership requirement is payment of a fee do not 
qualify, but we must consider each membership based on all the membership requirements. 
That being said, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary holds any qualifying memberships, 
as we explain below. 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed only one of the Beneficiary's memberships under this criterion, 
~cally his status as a Fellow ofth~ I College of Physicians and Surgeons I ~­
L___J documentation in the record states: I I College certification attests to the fact that the 
Certificant has met the highestD Coll,ge strdards of assessment for the Certificant's specialty or 
subspecialty discipline .... Those who hold College certification are eligible to apply for admission 
to Fellowship." The materials list no particular traits or accomplishments that a certificant must establish 
in order to qualify for fellowship. Once admitted to fellowship, fellows must participate in the 
Maintenance of Certification program, which is "designed to ensure the highest standards in specialty 
medicine." General references to meeting "the highest standards" do not establish that thd I requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, and the submitted materials do not show that applicants' 
achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts as part of the application process. 
The submitted materials indicate that thel I judges candidates for certification by their credentials, 
rather than their achievements, and there is no indication that fellowship requires a higher level of 
achievement, rather than a commitment to pursue continuing education in a particular specialty. 
Fallowing a request for evidence, the Petitioner documented the Beneficiary's membership in three other 
associations: the Association of University Radiologists (AUR); the Radiological Society of North 
America (RSNA); and the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR). The Petitioner also 
asserted that the Beneficiary is a member of the Society of Skeletal Radiology (SSR), but did not submit 
evidence to support that claim. 
2 6 USCIS Policy Manual Part E, retired Adjudicator's Field Manual Chapter 22.2(i)(l )(A), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. 
3 
We note that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to show when the Beneficiary joined the AUR, the 
RSNA, and the AACR. This omission is significant because the Petitioner did not mention any of these 
memberships in the initial filing, and the Petitioner must establish the Beneficiary's eligibility as of the 
petition's filing date. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). If the Beneficiary joined the associations after the filing 
date, then those memberships cannot establish eligibility regardless of their membership requirements.3 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that any of the Beneficiary's memberships meet the regulatory 
requirements. The various associations each have several different membership levels, and the submitted 
evidence ( screen captures of the Beneficiary's member profiles) does not show which level of 
membership the Beneficiary holds in any of the associations. 
According to AUR' s bylaws, "[ a ]11 radiology faculty of an accredited medical school or of an institution 
with an ACGME-accredited radiology residency or fellowship program ... will be eligible for full 
membership." Associate membership is open even to non-physicians, such as "computer support 
personnel, and radiology nurses and technologists" who do not typically hold M.D. degrees. 
To become an active member of the RSNA, a radiologist must hold a recognized medical degree and 
board certification, and "reside in and practice in a North American country." There are no other listed 
requirements. Other RSNA membership categories have even lower membership requirements, open to 
medical students and to non-physicians such as nurses. Materials from the SSR's website show similar 
membership requirements, indicating that each candidate for full membership must be board certified in 
radiology and "devote at least 50% of his/her time to ... professional practice." 
The AACR's constitution establishes "seven classes of members," with student membership being 
available even to high school students. The submitted documentation indicates that"[ a ]ctive membership 
shall be open to qualified scientists of any nation who have [produced] original, peer-reviewed 
publications relevant to cancer and biomedical research." Publication of research is not inherently an 
outstanding achievement. Another membership class, honorary membership, is limited "to distinguished 
individuals who have made extraordinary contributions to the advancement of cancer research," but the 
Petitioner does not claim, or establish, that the Beneficiary is an honorary member of the AACR. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that the AACR is an association in the field of radiology. The 
Beneficiary's eligibility for membership derives from his participation in cancer-related biomedical 
research before he attended medical school. 
The Petitioner has not established that any of the Beneficiary's memberships reqmre outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy the above criterion, and the Petitioner has claimed only two 
other criteria. As a result, detailed discussion of the remaining criterion -8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
3 See Matter of lzummi, 22 l&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998) (a petitioner may not make material changes to a petition 
that has already been filed to make a deficient petition conform to requirements); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971) (a beneficiary must be eligible at the time of filing, rather than relying on qualifying 
factors that emerged after the filing date). 
4 
regarding original contributions of major significance in the field -cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 
Although we will not discuss the Beneficiary's contributions in detail, we observe that, of the four specific 
research contributions that the Petitioner calls the Beneficiary's most notable, three relate to genetic 
disorders rather than radiology. This is an important consideration because the Petitioner specifically, 
and repeatedly, identifies the Beneficiary's field as radiology, specifically in a clinical context relating to 
the practice of medicine. The Petitioner has not explained how genetic research, undertaken before the 
Beneficiary was a credentialed radiologist, amounts to contributions in the field of radiology. The 
Petitioner has neither established that, nor explained how, the Beneficiary would pursue genetic research 
at a radiology clinic. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act requires the Petitioner to establish that the 
Beneficiary will continue to work in the area of claimed extraordinary ability, and section 
203 (b )(1 )(A )(iii) of the Act requires substantial prospective (i.e., future) benefit to the United States. Past 
work in an area of research that the Beneficiary no longer pursues does not satisfy either of these statutory 
requirements, and the Petitioner has not established its relevance to the specific claim that the Beneficiary 
"possesses extraordinary ability in the field of Radiology." 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown recognition of the Beneficiary's work indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim, and which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Much of the evidence ofrecord predates the Beneficiary's medical 
training, and is of uncertain relevance to the Beneficiary's intended employment as a physician, 
specializing in MSK radiology. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13668297 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architect, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
From 2002 to 2012, the Petitioner held various,-,:p....:o:.:..s1:.:..·t1:..:·o.;::n:.:..s..:..:a.;_t t:.:..h:..:e-===;--------------~ 
Institute of Architectural Design and Research! I, eventually holding the title of dean. As 
dean, the Petitioner was "the head of the major project[s]" and "also responsible for the management of 
the design office." Since 2013, the Petitioner has been the majority shareholder of I I 
.__ __________ _.I and chaired its board of directors. The Petitioner seeks employment as the 
director and chief architect of._______,,.------.----....,...a real estate development company. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the criterion numbered (vi). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets five of the other previously claimed criteria, but does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding criterion (ii), and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned.2 
1 The Petitioner previously filed Form 1-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur, approved in December 2013. Her 
associated Fmm T-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status, remains pending. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner implies, but does not directly claim, that she satisfies a previously unclaimed 
criterion numbered (ix), relating to high salary or other remuneration. We will not consider this 
criterion during these appeal proceedings. The Petitioner did not claim to have satisfied this criterion 
before she filed the appeal. The purpose of an appeal is to identify, specifically, erroneous conclusions 
of law or statements of fact. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Because the Petitioner had not previously 
claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the Director cannot have erred with respect to that criterion. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
numbered (vi). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner has claimed several awards at various times in this proceeding. The Director determined 
that some of the awards were limited to the provincial level, and others went to the Petitioner's employers 
and therefore the Petitioner herself did not receive them. The wording of the regulation requires the 
individual's receipt of the prizes. Involvement in a prize-winning project or endeavor does not suffice if 
the Petitioner herself did not receive the prize. 
On appeal, the Petitioner limits her arguments to two specific awards from China's National Engineering 
Construction Quality Award Examination Committee. In 2012 won theb I I I Silver Award for its design ofth In 2013J I _l andl _ 
l.,:::======;------::-------::----:---::r-------'""s=h=ar"--'e7d "the third prize of I I ~--~I.- .. for [the]~-------~Project." 
The Petitioner asserts that, as team leader, she effectively received the prizes for the two projects identified 
above. I ts chairman of the board asserts that the Petitioner "led the design team[ s] to complete" 
those projects, but does not indicate that the Petitioner received the prizes. 
The record does not contain elaboration from the awarding entity to establish the extent to which the 
awards recognized her work in particular. For instance, the record does not explain which elements of 
thel lproject were considered under~---------~' nor does it 
indicate that the award was specific to "Phase II" of that project. 
The Petitioner has not shown that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
The Petitioner served on technical qualification evaluation committees for municipal authorities in I I The Petitioner states that committee members "first review the applicant's written materials, 
and secondly interview the applicant." The materials submitted by the Petitioner indicate that she was 
involved in judging the qualtfications of candidates for professional certification, rather than judging the 
work of others as the regulation requires. Translated materials from thq I Human Resources and 
Social Security Bureau indicate that municipal authorities grant "professional and technical qualifications 
... through ... initial assessment, review and evaluation, examination, and combination of examination 
and evaluation of graduates of colleges and universities." 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner asserts that she holds the rights to "patented technology" concerning an energy-saving 
system to control heating and air conditioning. The Petitioner does not explain how the system constitutes 
a contribution to the field of architecture, rather than to the related but distinct field of ventilation 
engineering. The Petitioner holds a degree in thermal engineering, but she claims extraordinary ability 
as an architect, not as a thermal engineer. 
We further note that the Petitioner has not directly documented the patent itself: only a "copyright 
registration certificate" for computer software. The terms "patent" and "copyright" are not synonymous 
or interchangeable, but the issuance of either attests only to originality, not to significance. From the 
wording of the translation, we cannot determine whether the Petitioner personally developed the software, 
or holds the rights to software developed by others. 
The Petitioner asserts that her "innovation has been wideJ utilized," and submits copies of three "patent 
use agreements."3 All of the licensees are design firms i I and the agreements limit the use of 
the copyrighted work tq I Province and, in one case,I I Province. The Petitioner does not 
explain how implementation in two Chinese provinces counts as "widespread" in terms of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence o_f the display o_f the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director concluded that this criterion is not applicable to the field of architecture. Because there is 
an esthetic element to architecture, we disagree with the Director's conclusion; the nature of the field does 
not inherently rule out artistic exhibitions or showcases. Nevertheless, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
show that her work was on display in its own right, rather than simply facilitating the display of the works 
3 The translations show the word "patent," but the registration number listed on the agreements corresponds to the copyright 
certificate discussed above. The list of attachments on each agreement refers to a "[c]opy of patent certificate," but the 
attachments themselves are not reproduced in the record. The agreements were not issued by the China National Intellectual 
Property Administration, and therefore they cannot suffice to establish that the Petitioner holds a patent 
4 
it contained. (For example, in an art museum, it is the paintings and sculptures that are on display, not 
the building that contains those works.) 
The Petitioner states that she led a "design team ... [who] cooperated wit to complete 
the design of thel I which was exhibited at the in 2010." The 
Petitioner has not established that the purpose of the~------~ was to display the pavilion 
structures themselves, rather than the exhibits that they housed. Also, the Petitioner has not shown that 
she, rather than the unnamed l I" was primarily responsible for the fundamental design 
and character of the structure. The record does not show that the Petitioner's team conceived of the 
structure, rather than assisted in realizing concepts that originated from thel I 
The Petitioner has not shown that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner states that she satisfies this criterion through serving as the dean o~ Isl I 
Institute and as chairperson oO The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown her role 
to be leading or critical for any organization or establishment as a whole. 
We disagree, in part, with the Director's conclusion. The record consistently indicates that the Petitioner 
held positions of major responsibility at bothl I and D. But the Petitioner must also establish that 
the organizations or establishments have a distinguished reputation. Reputation is a measure of outside 
perception, and therefore the Petitioner cannot establish a company's reputation simply by submitting 
letters from officials of that company. Furthermore, it cannot suffice simply to list projects that a company 
undertook, or honors or awards that the company received as a result of those projects. The Petitioner 
must also provide a basis for comparison to show that company is distinguished in relation to other 
companies in the same industry. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to show thafl I andD have distinguished 
reputations in comparison to other architectural firms in China. Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements of this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion, relating to 
published material about the Petitioner (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)), cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner has established some degree of success and prominence in 
Shenzhen, but her recognition appears to be predominantly local. The submitted evidence does not 
establish recognition of the Petitioner's work indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim, or demonstrating a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15821268 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an associate professor of computer science, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as an associate professor at the Institute of 
Computing Technology, The Petitioner's resume reflects that he 
worked for~----------~ as a research scientist from 2007 until 2010, and later 
as a senior research scientist and director assistant from 2010 through 2014. In 2007, he received his 
doctorate degree in computer science from the Institute of Computing Technology,,.___ _____ _. I I where he also worked as a research assistant during his graduate studies. The Petitioner 
states that his research interests include! I andl I, including I I I I models.I ~I I. and information theory. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts for 
several conferences in his field. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications 
including scientific journals and conference proceedings. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that he does not meet a third 
criterion, related to his original contributions in the field, which we will discuss below. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a determination 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence relating to the publication of his research in professional 
journals and conference proceedings (including evidence of citations of his work), evidence related to 
his patents, letters from experts in his field (including colleagues and independent experts) who discuss 
his work and his reputation, and evidence related to the practical application of his work by private 
sector companies. 
The Petitioner places considerable emphasis on his overall publication and citation record in support 
of his assertion that he meets this criterion. While we will discuss this evidence below, we emphasize 
that this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field and not simply to his establish that his total number of citations compares 
favorably to others in his field. It is the Petitioner's burden to identify his specific original 
contributions, explain why they are of major significance in the field, and to submit sufficient evidence 
to corroborate that significance. 
The Petitioner has consistently stated that his original contributions of major significance in the=] I land I I field fall within three areas: (1) development of "novel approaches for I I from I I data"; (2) development of "novel frameworks for ~----~ understanding and I h and (3) development of "new models that 
significantly increase the accuracy ofl I' in the field of I I 
The Petitioner provided five independent expert opinion letters in support of the petition, each of which 
discusses two of his published papers. As discussed below, the authors of the letters describe the 
Petitioner's work in significant technical detail, state where his research was published, and then 
declare with minimal elaboration that the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the I I 
field. Further, with one exception, the letters do not focus on the work that the Petitioner himself 
identified as highly cited in his field. 
For example.I I a vice president withl I states that the Petitioner "conducted 
pioneering research on defining! I" explains the research, and notes 
that the Petitioner was able to present "the convenient and unified checking conditions for ,□"I J I !generalizing and illuminating the common nature of alll ~,, ~---~Is 
reference to the research as "pioneering" is not sufficient to establish that it had a remarkable impact 
or influence or that is otherwise deemed a contribution of major significance in the field. He also 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
discusses the Petitioner's "studies on inl !systems, explains these 
studies in detai I, and states that "the identified by [the Petitioner] are conducive 
to better organizing,.___ ____ _.so as to attract more user dwell time in these systems." He notes 
the publication of the two referenced studies in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory and in the 
Proceedings of The 25th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), 
respectively. 2 I I does not further describe how either of the papers mentioned is of major 
significance or otherwise discuss the impact or influence of the Petitioner's findings in their shared 
field. He concludes that the Petitioner's work "has helped shape the modern data science field" but 
does not elaborate on this critical point. 
I I Vice President of Engineering and.___ ______ _. at I I likewise 
provides highly technical descri tions of two of the Petitioner's research studies.3 He explains that the 
Petitioner developed a.___ ___________ ---;::===::;--------' and published 
his work in the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. I I also discusses the Petitioner's 
proposal of ".:==::::;-~--:------:-----:----:-------:-~~-:-------:---:-:-------:---..------'" and notes that 
both of thesel I machine methods "perform better than baseline methods." However, he does not 
describe how these methods have impacted or influenced further research or state that the methods have 
achieved widespread application in the field. He offers a general conclusion that the Petitioner's 
"significant discoveries" have "significant impact on the development of new methods tori I I !generation, and the benefits of [his] research are national in scale," but he does not 
explain the impact or the resulting benefits. 
A letter froml I Chair Professor at thd I University of Science and Technology 
follows a similar pattern. He provides a technical description of a study in which the Petitioner 
"successfully realizeq ltrom multiple source domains visal t and 
another study in which the Petitioner "developed [a] novel method for I J and 
I I across multiple domains using I I model for I I" I Is 
summaries of the Petitioner's published studies are highly detailed but he does not explain the influence 
or impact of the Petitioner's research in the field or otherwise offer an assessment or analysis of how 
either of these individual research contributions is considered a contribution of major significa~ 
Rather, he generally credits the Petitioner with presenting "a host of developing novel methods forLJ 
I I' and states that "the huge influence of his research" is reflected in his cumulative citation numbers. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from I Ian associate professor atl I University at 
I I I I states that the Petitioner "made significant contributions to I I 
.___ ______ __.I," which she describes as "an importan~ lproblem with many broad 
applications." She provides technical details regarding two of his published articles in this area of 
2 The Petitioner's Goo:le Scholar profile submitted at the time of filing in August 2018 did not include either article 
referenced byl J An updated profile the Petitioner submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) indicated that the articles had been cited 10 times and 1 time, respectively, as of February 2019. 
3 Neither of the studies referenced b~ I appeared on the initial Google Scholar profile submitted at the time of 
filing; the updated profile showed 14 citations to the Petitioner's 2017 AAAI paper I I 
I I and 0 citations to his 2018 AAAI paper I I 
~-------~1· 
4 
research, noting his development otl lthat he has namedl I andl 141 I 
describes the Petitioner's approach as "innovative and creative" and states that he was "a pioneer m 
------..~-~~-~~-~-~~-------'□ 
concludes her letter b statin that the Petitioner "has made many crucial contributions of both 
research" but she does not explain how his work in the '---~-------------...._____, area o_.__ _____________ ____.~as been remarkablv iofll,eotial Df impactful in the 
field or provide further explanation as to why his i~----------~j are considered a 
contribution of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Finally, the record contains a letter froml I chair Professor of Finance a,-Jtl ______ _ 
Graduate School of Business, who discusses the Petitioner's 2012 publication titled ·~I----~ 
He ex lains that that the Petitioner 
developed ' which he describes as "a method to ~-___.!.,._.__ ___ L..-_~ ~--___,J ............ ------------~ ~---------~ and explains what~---~ is and why it is a challenging problem 
in data science.~tes that while several methods had been proposed to tackle the challenge, 
the Petitioner'sl___Jtramework was a novel framework that proved to "achieve significantly 
higher accuracy over state-of-the-art methods." He indicates that the Petitioner's work "has been 
extensively followed by his peers and the paper has been cited 188 times so far." But he does not 
indicate the significance of the number of citations or, more importantly, detail how the Petitioner's 
framework has been particularly impactful or influential in the field or explain how it has been applied 
by others. While the record reflects that this paper is the Petitioner's most-cited work, neither the 
citation history norl Is letter offers sufficient support for a conclusion that it is regarded in the 
field as a contribution of major significance. 
The letters considered above uniformly praise the Petitioner for his work, but primarily contain 
technical descriptions of the Petitioner's research and attestations of its novelty without providing 
specific examples or probative analysis of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 Letters that lack specifics do 
not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the 
Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented in the field or establish that the 
Petitioner's work has had an impact in the field commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
As noted, the Petitioner places considerable emphasis on the publication of his work in high-impact 
journals in his field, on his cumulative citation numbers, and on the citation rates for some of his 
4 The two publications mentioned inl Is letter were not listed on the initial Google Scholar profile submitted with 
the petition. The updated document submitted in response to the RFE showed that the Petitioner's 2012 paper 
'-------..---------------------------' had been cited 15 times, 
and his 2015 paper "~----------~· had been cited 6 times. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
5 
individual publications. We have considered this evidence in conjunction with the Petitioner's own 
explanations of his contributions in the field and the opinions of experts discussed above. 
While he contends that he authored "high-quality scientific publications in top-ranked journals and 
conferences," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that publication of his articles in highly ranked or 
prestigious journals or conference proceedings is sufficient to demonstrate that he has made original 
contributions of major significance. A given publication's high ranking or impact factor only reflects 
the publication's overall citation rate; it does not demonstrate an individual author's influence or the 
impact of their research in the field. Nor is there evidence to support a conclusion that any article 
published in a highly ranked journal automatically reflects a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes his cumulative citation numbers, as reflected in his Google Scholar 
profile.7 He notes that according to information published by lnCites: Essential Science Indicators, 
"researchers in the computer science field whose research has received 150 citations are ranked in Top 
1 % in the field," and states that his cumulative citations exceed this threshold by 10 times. In general, 
the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates 
that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination, in those cases where a petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Another set of data presented by the Petitioner is intended to compare the rate and frequency of 
citations to his individual articles to those of other scientists in his field. The Petitioner provides a 
chart in which he lists nine publications (published between 2011 and 2015) that fall among the "most 
cited papers in Computer Science field" according to the percentile rankings provided by lnCites: 
Essential Science Indicators. Specifically, he indicates that citations to the listed publications places 
each of them within the top 0.1 to 1 % of all papers published in the field in the same year. Based on 
the evidence the Petitioner provided from Google Scholar, the nine articles he identifies as highly­
cited had been cited between 26 and 196 times at the time he filed this petition. Of these, four papers 
had fewer than 50 citations, three had citations in the 68 to 80 range, one had 104 citations, and one 
had 196 citations and is his most-cited paper overall. 
As noted, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but also to 
explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication 
that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, comparative 
rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given petitioner has 
made a contribution of major significance in the field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, 
7 The Director determined that there were inconsistencies in the record with respect to the Petitioner's Google Scholar 
profile. We note that the profile submitted at the time of filing lists 20 publications and a cumulative citation count of 
1677, while the updated profile submitted in response to the RFE lists significantly more than 20 publications and 1867 
cumulative citations. The first list appears to represent the Petitioner's top 20 publications, while the second listing appears 
to be complete. Given the passage of approximately six months between the date of filing and the date of the RFE response, 
we do not find the number of cumulative citations to be inconsistent. We emphasize, however, that the Petitioner must 
establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and 
continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). For this reason, our focus is on the initial citation record 
submitted at the time of filing. 
6 
would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly cited 
articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. Highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance" as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the nine articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's research findings, individually or 
collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. In fact, of these nine publications, only 
one of them is mentioned in one of the expert opinion letters submitted in support of this criterion. 
Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he did not 
establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" as 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of several research articles that cited 
to his work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner 
provided a copy of a 2016 article titled ,___ __________ ___.'8 that references the 
Petitioner's 2015 article in the Proceedings of the 24th ACM International Conference in Information 
and Knowledge Management. 9 The Petitioner's paper is mentioned among several previous studies 
ofl I and the authors observed that all previous methods, including the Petitioner's, I ~: However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the 
Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers. The submitted research articles reference the 
Petitioner's work as evidence of recent research, and, while the articles indicate that the authors' own 
research bui It upon the Petitioner's work, as well as the work of the other cited scientists, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the overall field views his published findings as original contributions of 
major significance. Many of the submitted articles cite to papers authored by the Petitioner that are 
not otherwise claimed to involve contributions of major significance. For example, they are not 
citations to the publications he characterizes as highly cited or to publications that are mentioned in 
the submitted expert opinion letters. The mere citation of work by others does not automatically show 
the "major significance" of this work. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several book chapters and more 
than 15 review articles. The Petitioner asserts that "review articles only include those meaningful 
progresses in [a] certain field," and therefore "being highlighted in a large number of reviews and 
books serves as solid proof for the great interest on [his] research." The Petitioner's evidence in this 
regard consists of a chart which lists the titles of book chapters and review articles, and the names of 
the books or professional publications in which they were published. He did not provide copies of 
8 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 The Petitioner also highlighted a second publication cited in this article. That 1ubli~led 
I I was authored byl II 11 andL_______..,,J This article does not 
appear on the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile. A search for the article's title on Google Scholar reflects that it was co-
authored by a computer scientist at the University ofl I who has the same name as the Petitioner. 
7 
review articles that cite his work or identify which of his articles have been referenced in review 
articles. While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions to what 
appears to be an active field of research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review 
article is one the field recognizes as majorly significant. 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence that he has been listed as a co-inventor on five U.S. patent 
applications that were filed during his employment with,___ ________ _. A patent 
recognizes the originality of the idea, but it does not by itself demonstrate that the inventor made a 
contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the significance of the innovation must be 
determined on a case-by-case basis. Here, the evidence related to these patents is limited to copies of 
the first page of the patent application publications themselves. The patent applications are not 
discussed in the Petitioner's statements or the expert opinion letters, and the record is otherwise lacking 
an explanation as to how the patented technologies have had an impact of major significance in the 
field. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that he has made contributions to products and technologies that are 
widely used by major I I companies. He provided evidence that he is a co-founder ofl I I l and asserted that the company's products, which he states are based 
on his research, "have been used by famous companies and organizations." This evidence included a 
letter from CEO, who certifies that the Petitioner is the co-founder and chief scientist of 
,___ _________ ~ and asserts that he is responsible for the company's,___ _____ ~ 
research team. also certifies that "the corel I for all the products (general products 
such as,___ __ _.~-~ I I and those organization-customized products) of our company are 
developed by [the Petitioner] and his team." 
The Petitioner emphasized that the company's products have been used by I l.thel lstock Exchange, an~ !Stock Excha'-n-ge ___ H_e_p_r-ov-id_e_d_c_op_i__.es 
of contracts signed in 2018, but did not provide any add1t1onal documentation or explanation regarding 
,.__ ________ ___, its products, or how those products represent original contributions of 
major significance that have already had a remarkable influence or impact in the field. 
The Petitioner also states that, during his tenure at Institute of Computing Technology.I I 
he has been involved in collaborative research projects with th~~--~Stock 
~E_x_c-ha_n_g_e-an_d_w-ith~leading I I companies I land I I In support of his claim, 
he submitted a "Certificate of Achievement for Joint Project" from each of these entities, all dated in 
September 2016. The certificates attest to the Petitioner's collaborative research work with these 
entities, describe that research, and indicate the benefit or potential benefit to the respective companies. 
However, they do not provide sufficient explanation of the major significance of his contributions in 
the field. 
For example, the "Certificate of Achievement" frorrj I states that 
"the~----~center ofl !Department fo~~-~fsl lhusiness 
group," worked with the Petitioner "to tackle key problems with respect to 'the establishment of the I l"' The certificate explains the research, notes that it resulted in two conference 
papers that were under review and indicates that the company "applied for four patents sharing the 
intellectual property rights with Institute of Computing Technology." It further states that the 
8 
technologies that form the subject of the patents and conference papers would "become the core ones 
of thel I platform." At the time the submitted certificate was written, the research was 
still in a developmental phase and the platform had not been launched. The record does not include 
evidence that the Petitioner co-authored the referenced patents or conference papers or evidence of the 
significant impact or influence of this work in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14444575 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did not 
establish that he has the requisite sustained acclaim at the national or international level, and that he 
is one of the small percentage of journalists at the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist who specializes in the area of I ;:l, 
Since 1998 he has written a weekly supplement in this area for th~ 7 periodical LJ 
.___ _ ____.I He states that he intends to continue working as a journalist in the United States, while also 
leading communication strategy for a company investing inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met six of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with 
the Director's conclusions regarding four of those criteria, and withdraw those aspects of his decision. 
However, we agree that the Petitioner has not otherwise established that he has enjoyed sustained 
national or international acclaim as a journalist, and that he is not one of the small percentage of 
journalists at the top of his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence which indicates that in 2017 he received the "National Rails 
Award" from the Rails Multimedia Group. A letter from the Multimedia Director of this organization 
states that the Petitioner was awarded ""for his extraordinary qualities as a journalist specialized in 
,___ ___________ __." The Director indicated, without providing analysis, that this 
award was sufficient to meet this criterion. 
The plain language of this criterion dictates that in order to qualify, an award must be given for 
excellence in a petitioner's field of endeavor. Although the initial letters from the awarding 
organization's multimedia director suggest that the award recognizes excellence in journalism, other 
evidence in the record contradicts these statements. An article posted to the website 
2 
~-------~ states that the National Rails Award "distinguishes anl O b leading 
personality noted for its work in the development, growth, and dissemination of the rail system for 
both the passenger and cargo sector." It does not mention the field of journal ism, or that the award is 
intended to award excellence in that field. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a third letter from 
the director of the awarding company. He explains the history of the award, and describes the 
Petitioner's years of contributions to the rail industry inl I through his work as a journalist. 
However, this evidence does not indicate that the National Rails Award is granted for excellence in 
journalism, or that other journalists have previously received the award. In addition, the letter and 
website article referred to above indicate that the award is granted at an annual convention for the 
I O I rail industry, not at a meeting by or for journalists. 
Further, upon review of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that it does 
not establish that the National Rails Award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of 
journalism. As noted above, it is granted at a convention for the rail industry, and the only evidence 
of recognition beyond that convention and its organizer was the article posted to 
,___ _______ __. Neither demonstrates that others in the field of journalism recognize this 
award as standing for excellence. Therefore, we disagree with the Director's conclusion and withdraw 
his finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to establish that they meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence which meets all 
elements of this criterion. Specifically, the evidence must establish that material was published, that 
it is about the individual and their work in the claimed field of expertise, and that the medium in which 
it was published is a professional, major trade or other major medium. 
The Director found that the evidence of material published in 2012, 2014 and 2019 qualified under 
this criterion, but did not otherwise identify or provide analysis of this evidence. A review of the 
evidence in the record finds several articles about the Petitioner, some of which were published in one 
of the qualifying types of media under this criterion. However, none of this material is about his work 
as a journalist. For example, an article published in the I newspaper! lonl I, 2012 
is about the Petitioner's swim across thel I and mentions that he wrote a book about 
his experience,,...__ _____ ____. Other articles about his swimmin activities which mention the 
books he wrote about them were published in.____ _____ ..--__ ...,........,and two websites. Also, 
an interview of the Petitioner about the state of the rail system in ........... ~~which appeared inl I I lis also not about his work as a journalist. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that these articles discuss his authorship of 
books "relating to his experiences in improving his health," and that "the duties of a Journalist are to 
capture a story through the experience itself, in order to display the emotion that was experienced, so 
the viewers may witness and feel what it is like to be there." He also refers to an article, said to have 
3 
been submitted as part of Exhibit 2 of his response to the RFE, which he asserts supports this 
description of journalism. However, this article is not present in the record, nor does the Petitioner 
point to other evidence to support this description on appeal. We note that the word "journalism" is 
defined as "the collection and editing of news for presentation through the media,"1 which does not 
include autobiographical accounts published in a book. 
In addition, even if the Petitioner's definition of "journalism" was supported in the record, we note 
that while the articles generally mention that he wrote a book or works as a journalist, they are not 
about his work or profession but about his activities as an amateur long-distance swimmer (aside from 
thel , I article, which as noted is about thel O I rail system.) Accordingly, we 
disagree with the Director and withdraw his finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes evidence that establishes that the Petitioner served as the president of the jury for 
the 20191 I Award, which the materials indicate "is an incentive to innovation and 
quality in th~ !industry." The Director, in his RFE, 
acknowledged this evidence, but sought further evidence to show that in this role, the Petitioner judged 
the work of others in journalism or an allied field. In his response, the Petitioner asserted that the l . I is an allied field to [his] work as a Journalist" since those 
subjects were the focus of his writing for more than 20 years. Drawing upon the definition of the word 
"allied," he asserts that since he is "the most recognized journalist inl I' focusing onl I 
~-----~that field "is inextricably connected" to his work as a journalist. We do not accept 
this interpretation of the regulation, the plain language of which requires that an individual judge the 
work of others in the same or an allied field. The fact that the Petitioner, as a journalist, specializes in 
writing about~----------~ does not create a connection between the field of 
journalism and those subjects, as the language of the criterion speaks of "an allied field" in the broader 
sense, whereas here the only connection between these disparate fields is the Petitioner himself. 
In addition, we note that the record does not indicate that the award is intended for journalists, or that 
the Petitioner actually judged the work of any journalists while acting as a juror for the I I ~ Award. The materials posted on the website I I the company which conducts the 
awards, indicate that the finalists for the award wereC] management and I I companies, not 
individual journalists or even media companies. We therefore disagree with the Director's conclusion 
regarding this criterion and withdraw his finding. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence to establish that their work in the claimed 
field of expertise was displayed at an exhibition or showcase which was artistic in nature. In his 
decision, the Director found that the notices regarding the launch event for the Petitioner's book 
1 Merriam-webster.com/dictionary/journalism, accessed on March 15, 2021. 
4 
'--------~ which took place at the I , I Museum in I II O I were 
sufficient to meet this criterion. After review, we disagree with and withdraw the Director's 
conclusion. 
First, although the Petitioner's work was displayed, this was not work in the field of journalism. As 
previously noted, he wrote this book about his swim across thel I. not in his role as a 
journalist specializing in the subjects ofl I Second, the event described 
in the evidence is a book launch for I f. In general, the main goal of a book launch 
is to promote and sell a book, and the evidence in the record does not show that the launch for the 
Petitioner's book was distinguished by artistic elements. We note that the Petitioner asserted in his 
RFE response that the work of a journalist is artistic in nature. However, whether the work of a 
journalist, or an author of an autobiography, is artistic is not a consideration under this criterion, as it 
is the exhibition or showcase at which the work is displayed which must have an artistic nature. As 
such, this evidence does not demonstrate that the displayed work was in the Petitioner's field of 
journalism, or that it was displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase as opposed to an event 
organized for commercial purposes. 
The Petitioner also asserted in his response to the Director's RFE that this book and another he wrote 
about his open water swimming experiences, .__ _____________ ____., were 
themselves artistic exhibitions or showcases where his work as a journalist was displayed. For the 
same reasons given above, we do not find that these books are works in the field of journalism. In 
addition, although the Petitioner submitted definitions of the words "exhibition" and "showcase," and 
asserted that the books he wrote are "medium[s] for exhibiting something or someone especially in an 
attractive or favorable aspect," we do not accept this interpretation of the language of this criterion. 
The individual words, sentences and paragraphs in a book or other written material do not constitute 
"work" for purposes of this criterion, just as the individual brushstrokes in a painting are not the 
"work" which is displayed in an art gallery or museum. 
Further, the Petitioner additionally asserted in his RFE response that his work was displayed in the 
form of articles he wrote for tha lweekly supplement, as well as in the form of speeches he 
gave about his swimming experiences through'------~----.,}· He repeated his argument 
that both the newspaper and the conferences are "mediums" for the display of his journalistic work, 
which he asserted is artistic in nature. However, as we noted above concerning the Petitioner's book 
launch event, it is the nature of the exhibition or showcase that this criterion requires to be artistic, and 
he has not established that a newspaper focusing on issues of~-----~or.__ ___ .... 
business conferences are artistic in nature. 
Upon review of the evidence and per the discussion above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to lesser awards, published material, 
participation as a judge, and display of his work, and withdraw the Director's findings regarding those 
criteria. Although the Director also found that the Petitioner meets two additional criteria, relating to 
his authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 
5 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach those additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
these issues.2 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. In particular, although he states that his field of 
endeavor is journalism, with a specialty in the subjects of.__~ _________ __.we note 
that the majority of the articles published about him focus on his open water swimming adventures 
and the books he wrote about them. Similarly, the evidence regarding his participation irl I 
business conferences focuses on his personal achievements as a swimmer rather than his expertise as 
a journalist. Further, although his knowledge and contributions in the area of I . I I I has been acknowledged in that industry through an award and invitation to serve as a judge, 
the record does not include evidence that either of those honors are reserved for, or have been 
acknowledged by, other journalists. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14278733 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pastry chef, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not show his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that smal I percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is currently owns and operates a bakery inl dand intends to 
open a similar business in the United States catering to thel I market in Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met five of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that he fulfills 
the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i).1 
As the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we 
will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.2 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of a certificate, with certified English translation, namjna him as the jndjyjdual 
second place winner of the 3rd! I Championship sponsored by thel I 
I [ The Petitioner also submitted a letter with certified English translation from the association, confirming 
his receipt of this prize, as well as a newspaper article discussing the national recognition afforded to this award. As a 
result, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets this criterion's mandatory elements. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim,3 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.4 Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
Over a six-year period before he filed this petition, the Petitioner has built a career in his field and has 
gained some attention for his culinary work. As indicated above, the Petitioner owns a bakery where 
he works as a pastry chef. He is a member of a professional culinary association, has judged others, 
and displayed his work in various showcases and competitions. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his personal and professional achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The Petitioner received second place in the 3rdl I in 2012. 
While his receipt of this award received national-level attention in I I publications, he has not 
demonstrated how his receipt of this single national award, which was awarded approximately five 
years prior to the filing of the petition, demonstrates the required national or international acclaim 
required for this classification, nor is his achievement sufficiently representative of sustained acclaim. 5 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in I I thP.I I Association of 
Chefs, an association dedicated to the implementation of new techniques in the gastronomic field and 
certification of professionals in the food and beverage field. Although his membership in this 
association recognizes his knowledge and success in the pastry and baking fields, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated how membership in a single association reflects that he is among that small 
percentage that has risen to the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several articles in which he was mentioned that appeared in various I I magazines with national circulation, including! l Catering Magazine, BellaVista, 
and Extra, a national newspaper. The majority of this material focuses on reporting of various career 
achievements, including the displays of his creations in 2016 pastry competitions and his judging of 
the ICPP graduate students. The Petitioner also submits screenshots and transcripts of television 
appearances onc:=J TVandl !channel 13), where he demonstrates his baking techniques. 
Although he has garnered some media attention relating to his career and achievements, the Petitioner 
did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success and being among that 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
5 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
3 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 6 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflected a "career of acclaimed 
work" in the field or the high standard to present extensive documentation. 7 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.8 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner prtici}ated in evaluating the work of graduate students at thel I 
Bakery and Bakery Institute Foundation in 2015. The Petitioner's judging experience involves 
evaluating the work of stutlents and aspiring professionals rather than established, recognized 
professionals. Cf., Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994) (USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). Further, he did not establish that these instances place him among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). He did not show, for example, how 
his experience in judging graduate candidates compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his instance of judging contributes to a finding that 
he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his judging of 
graduate students. Moreover, serving on a judging panel does not automatically demonstrate that an 
individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of 
his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a 
consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, displaying one's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases does not automatically place one 
at the top of the field. The Petitioner offered evidence reflecting that his work was displayed at various 
showcases, such as at the 2011 I I Express Contest, the 2012 3rd c===J 
of Cuisine and Pastry, the I , I of Pastry in 2013, the 2015 c===J" ------ of Pastry, the 2015...__ _____ __. the 2016 I I Sugar Arts, and the 
2016 ............,.--...,........,..----"Cake Design Contest. While the Petitioner presented his pastry creations at various 
venues, he did not demonstrate, for instance, that his work brought wide praise from critics, drew 
notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for the success or standings of the events. Here, 
the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish his work from others in his field or show that it reflects 
a career of acclaimed work in the field and sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. 
6 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
7 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
8 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b){l){A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that 
his work garnered a level of attention or was regularly seen at highly reputable venues consistent with 
being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C. F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, although he documented his income derived from and his 
employment as a culinary instructor with the~-----~ the Petitioner did not establish that 
he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b){l){A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages are tantamount to an individual 
who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C. F. R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
He did not demonstrate, for example, how his salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or 
that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field 
or placing him in the upper echelon. 
Beyond the criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the record in 
order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for the reasons 
discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
Although the Petitioner indicates he is tha:::=l of I I and the owner of his own bakery, 
he did not submit evidence to sufficiently corroborate these claims, nor did he document the business 
operations or distinguished reputation he claimed are attributed to these businesses. Regardless, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received acclaim or drew significant attention to himself based 
on his ownership of this entity or CEO position. In addition, while he claims that hils persral use and 
promotion of the I t product resulted in significant increases in sales for and I l 
he did not produce probative evidence to corroborate this claim, and did not show how these claimed 
sales figures place him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. Finally, which he 
claimed to perform a leading role as the~____,.--__________ __.s, the Petitioner 
submitted no evidence to corroborate this claim, nor did he establish that this role reflects his status in 
the upper echelon of his field. The documentation submitted by the Petitioner regarding these claimed 
roles is not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise indicating 
that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. In this matter, 
we find that the evidence offered by the Petitioner does not establish that he has distinguished himself 
as a pastry chef to such an extent that he may be said to have achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim or to be within the small percentage at the very top of his field. The evidence 
indicates that the Petitioner shows talent as a pastry chef, but is not persuasive that his achievements 
5 
set him significantly above almost all others in his field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the petition may not be approved. 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15798898 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that she meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, she did not establish, 
as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field. The Director dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider on the same grounds. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who competes in the traditional karate discipline and has also 
served as an instructor in karate and Krav Maga. She indicates that she intends to continue her career 
as a competitive athlete and martial arts instructor in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has neither claimed nor established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner provided evidence establishing that she meets three criteria, related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, memberships in organizations that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and judging the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv).1 
Because the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement, he 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria related to display of 
her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decisions, including both the original denial and 
the decision dismissing her motion, reflect that he did not consider all the evidence together in its 
totality in determining whether she is eligible for the benefit sought, and instead narrowly focused on 
her awards and recent competition record. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion regarding the insufficiency of the Director's final merits 
analysis, as both decisions contain few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although 
the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the membership and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv), no evidence related to these two criteria is mentioned or weighed in the final 
merits discussion; the Director simply observes that the criteria have been met. In fact, as noted by 
the Petitioner, the Director's analysis in the final merits determination in both decisions rested on two 
factors. First, the Director determined that although the Petitioner satisfied had received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards in karate competitions, she had not demonstrated that the 
level of competition in these tournaments was "elite." Further, the Director emphasized a lack of 
evidence related to the Petitioner's competition in tournaments between 2014 and the date of filing in 
2017 and concluded that, regardless of the reasons for this absence from competition, she could not 
establish her sustained acclaim in the field.3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. Accordingly, the Director's decisions denying the petition and 
dismissing the Petitioner's subsequent motion are withdrawn and the petition will be remanded to the 
Director for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with the discussion below. 
As noted, the record reflects that the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv) based on the initial evidence submitted with the petition. The 
record does not support the Director's conclusion with respect to these criteria. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should review the Petitioner's evidence and, if appropriate, allow her an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of the following evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims to have received both nationally and internationally recognized prizes or awards 
in the sport of traditional karate. In support of her claim that she received nationally recognized prizes, 
she relied on a letter from~----~· founder and chairman of the I I 
3 The Director disregarded evidence related to other martial arts activities in which the Petitioner engaged during this 
period, such as coaching. However, the record indicates the Petitioner intends to engage in both competitive athletics and 
karate instruction in the United States. In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international 
acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can 
consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such 
that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
3 
L------~----{-~~---,._ ___ __Js letter includes a list of 26 competitions in which 
the Petitioner competed in~--~ between 2003 and 2014 and lists the medals she received in each 
competition (a total of 46 gold, silver, and bronze medals). The list identifies the competitions as 
"National" andl !states that the competitions are "nationally or internationally recognized" 
because they "are regulated by WTKF," the World Traditional Karate Federation. The record did not 
include supporting evidence, such as official competition results, award certificates or medals received 
by the Petitioner in these events, or any informatir regar1ing the specific competitions in which she 
competed, which included I I Cup," Cup," I I Cup," I ICup," and I I Cup," among others. The evidence was not sufficient to establish her receipt of these 
awards or to established that the awards themselves are nationally recognized. 
With res ect to her recei t of international awards, the Petitioner submitted a letter from WTKF 
who states that she received medals in three different~ 'i=======.I C_h_a_m_p~i-on_s_h-ip_s_h_e-ld_i_ -._r--"-_-_7
__, andO(three silver, three bronze, one gold), three medals 
at a j I Championship" event held inl I and four medals at an "International 
Championship" event held inl 11 I did not provide the year in which the 
tournaments were held or address their significance, nor was there any supporting evidence regarding 
these events. 
The Petitioner submitted images of 14 "international medals" and certificates from certain 
tournaments, but there are inconsistencies in this evidence. For example, the Petitioner submitted a 
certificate from thel I traditional karate federation I, ,I indicating that she participated in 
the 13thl !championship in traditional karate in 2003, but it does not list her results. Her 
medals from 2003 appear to be from the lstl I cup, not from the event identified 
in the certificate. She also submits a total of six medals from a competition she identifies as the 2005 I I Championship, but the medals indicate on their face that they are from al I I [championship. The information accompanying the images of these medals indicates that 
she received the gold, silver and bronze medals in the individual kumite event and both a silver and a 
bronze medal in the team kata event. We note that it is unlikely that one athlete could have received 
multiple medals in the same event that these results have not been explained. 
The Petitioner also submitted images of two medals which she claims are from the 20111 I 
Championship held irl 11 I referenced this event and indicated that she was awarded 
bronze in the Kumite category and silver in the Kata category. Although she identifies the medals as 
I !Championship awards, the medals indicate on their face that they are from the "IV I I Karate Tradicional" or 4th I I Traditional Karate I !Tournament. Further, the medals indicate on their reverse that they were awarded for third 
and fourth place finishes. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner's 
initial evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that she meets this criterion. I Is letter was 
lacking pertinent information, such as the dates of the competitions in which she competed and 
information regarding the significance of such competitions. Further, as noted, the supporting 
evidence she provided was internally inconsistent and does not appear to correspond td l's 
statement. The Petitioner must resolve the inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
4 
On remand, the Director should review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and may 
request additional objective evidence to verify the awards the Petitioner received and the national and 
international recognition associated with those awards. It is not sufficient for the Petitioner to identify 
the events at which she competed as "national" or "international" as it is not presumed that every 
karate competition that draws from a national or international field of competitors awards nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her membership inl J WTKF 
and the World Shotokan Karate Federation (WSKF) and stated that "these associations only grant 
membership to the top Martial Artists in their respective countries or disciplines." As noted, the 
Director determined that she met this criterion based on the initial evidence, which included the above-
referenced letters from I and I I, as wel I as a letter from .__ _____ ____. 
who states that he currently works as an instructor at a WSKF Academy in Ireland, but was formerly 
a board member of WSKFI I Upon review of these letters, we conclude that they do not 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
,___ ___ __.I states that the Petitioner "has been a martial artist at I I for several years" but 
does not indicate when she became a member. He indicates that "she was granted membership into 
our professional team through a highly rigorous process" and lists various requirements but it is 
unclear whether those requirements apply to,___ __ __.membership, team membership or both.0 I I mentions that applicants must be practicing martial artists with a black belt or higher, must 
be "nationally or internationally recognized," must have attained gold or silver awards in at least 10 
national or international competitions, and must demonstrate their "outstanding ability" to the 
"members of the Board of Directors." He does not indicate where the organization's official 
membership requirements and review processes can be found, identify the members of the Board of 
Directors, or indicate whether those members are recognized national or international experts in the 
field. Further, since the Petitioner did not provide evidence of when she became a member of I lwe have no basis to evaluate whether she met the membership requirements as stated by 
I I 
In his letter, Mr. Carrion asserts that the Petitioner has been a member of WTKF since 2004. He states 
that membership in WTKF requires "that the potential member present herself to a committee of 
judges who evaluate the martial artist's career and then run a series of exams on the martial artist" 
which covers "both theoretical and practical subjects." He identified five "esteemed martial artists" 
(WTKF Board Members from several countries) and states that they served on the Petitioner's 
evaluation committee. His statement does not demonstrate that membership requires "outstanding 
achievements" as he does not identify the basis on which the committee evaluates a martial artist's 
career. Nor can we determine based on the information provided that passing the practical and 
theoretical exam is an "outstanding achievement" in and of itself. Further, the Petitioner did not submit 
5 
supporting evidence, such as the WTKF's by-laws or other documentation of its membership 
requirements for individual athletes.4 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted the referenced letter from I I who states that he was 
previously a board member of WSKFI lprior to emigrating to Ireland. He asserts that the 
Petitioner was granted membership in WSKF in 2015 and that he served on the evaluation committee 
alongside other senior WSKF officials from I I and elsewhere. I I indicates that 
"WSKF approved the incorporation of [the Petitioner] due to her National and International 
achievement along her career." His letter does not sufficiently detail the WSKF membership 
requirements and review procedures for individual members, and, as with the evidence related to the 
WTKF, there is no supporting documentation that describes these requirements. 
Without additional documentation showing thatl I WTKF, and WSKF require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by internationally or nationally recognized experts as a 
condition for membership, the Petitioner has not shown that she meets this criterion. On remand, the 
Director should review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and may request additional 
independent evidence related to the Petitioner's memberships and the organizations' membership 
requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
As noted, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion based solely on the initial 
evidence submitted with the petition. That evidence was limited to the aforementioned letter fromD 
I I of I I In his letter.I I stated that the Petitioner "ferformed af a judge 
for our competitions" and that "[h]er responsibilities as a judge on behalf of,___ __ ___, are at a 
national level." He lists 23 events held inl I between 2000 and 2014, identifies them as 
"national events," and indicates that the Petitioner served as a judge at the junior, elite and elite/black 
belt level. I I states that in order to be a judge for competitions at the national level, an 
athlete must possess a brown belt or higher and pass a written test. The Petitioner did not submit 
documentation of herl I judging qualification or her judging credentials from any of the 
events referenced by! I many of which are also listed as events in which she competed as 
an athlete. He also indicates that the Petitioner "was selected as a judge for our national competitions 
... because of her internationally recognized track record as a martial artist and the fact that she is a 
respected figure in karate." However, the Petitioner was only 14 years old in 2000, the year in which I I asserts that she began officiating national level junior competitions. By contrast, he 
indicates that her earliest award in competition was earned in 2003. 
For these reasons, we disagree with the Director's determination that the initial evidence was sufficient 
to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. As the matter will be remanded, the Director should 
4 We reviewed the official website of the WTKF (www.wtkfederation.org) and note there is no indication that athletes may 
apply for individual membership to WTKF. The member application procedures provided refer only to national federations 
wishing to seek membership in WTKF. 
6 
review all evidence submitted in support of this criterion5 and, if appropriate, allow the Petitioner the 
opportunity to submit additional evidence. 
As discussed above, we agree with the Petitioner's argument that the Director's initial decision and 
decision on motion did not provide the Petitioner with sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial. 
However, upon de nova review, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's initial 
evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that she met three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As the Petitioner was not put on notice of the deficiencies in that evidence, and the 
Director's ultimate decision was otherwise deficient, will remand the matter in its entirety to the 
Director for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The matter will be remanded to the Director for further action in accordance with this decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 We note that, on appeal, the Petitioner claims for the first time that she is an accredited judge, inr11ctar and examiner of 
WSKR land judged national and international WSKF-sponsored competitions held in I in 2015 and 
2016. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13725062 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required, 
she did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal of that decision after reaching the same conclusion. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration , a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied four of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display of her work at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Moreover, we conducted a final merits determination in which we reviewed the 
record as a whole, including the evidence the Petitioner submitted under other claimed criteria.1 Based 
on this review, we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish her sustained national or international 
acclaim, that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
1 During the course of the proceeding, the Petitioner had claimed to meet the criteria relating to original contributions of 
major significance in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, she argues that we applied a heightened evidentiary standard 
and did not properly weigh the evidence in its totality in the final merits determination. As noted, 
where a petitioner satisfies at least three categories of evidence, we consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 at 1115. 2 We concluded that, although the 
Petitioner had garnered awards, received press coverage, judged the work of others, and displayed her 
work, the record did not demonstrate that her achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The evidence established that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory criterion related to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards. We determined that, while the prizes and awards reflect 
recognition of her work by the field, she "did not demonstrate how her honors place her among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We observed that 
she "for instance, did not establish how her receipts of such prizes and awards compare to those in the 
upper echelon of her field," and did not provide supporting documentation showing that the awards 
garnered her "significant attention demonstrating her sustained national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner maintains that "the awards themselves speak the fact that they are national awards and 
the award winner, the Petitioner has received national acclaim" and that the awards are of such 
significance that her receipt of them clearly shows that she "is among that small percentage of the very 
top in her field." She also emphasizes that she received awards in 2006, 2007, 2011, 2014, and 2015 
and points to a non-precedent decision in which we determined that a petitioner who had received 
awards in 2006, 2009, 2010, and 2012 had established that their awards were indicative of their 
sustained national acclaim. Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts 
of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the 
issues considered, and applicable law and policy. They do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
The Petitioner appears to contend that any individual who submits evidence satisfying the lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) should 
automatically meet the threshold for establishing national or international acclaim in a final merits 
determination. However, meeting the initial evidence requirement does not, in itself, establish that an 
individual is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability.3 Rather, the quality 
of the evidence must be considered as part of the final merits determination to determine whether it is 
indicative of a petitioner being one of that small percentage who have risen to the top of the field. 
While we acknowledge that the Petitioner has consistently received awards for her work, she has not 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 Id. at 13. 
3 
established that all of her awards garnered her recognition that extended beyond the exhibition or 
contest in which that work was submitted or exhibited. 
The Petitioner's claim that her awards place her among the small percentage of photographers at the 
top of the field is based on a calculation of the number of entries and number of prizes given in the 
individual contests or exhibitions in which she received an award or prize. For example, in a letter in 
support of the petition, she stated that her "commendation" award in the 20071 l I I Photography Contest I I) "put her in the top 0.1 % of the field of endeavor," 
because there were 41,980 works submitted, and 40 prizes in total (including a total of ten first, second 
and third prizes and "commendation" or honorable mention prizes in each of four categories). While 
the evidence demonstrates that her commended work was judged to be in the top 10 among an 
unspecified number of photographs submitted in her category, the results of a single contest do not 
speak to her overall placement in her field. 
The Petitioner also argues that "the AAO is wrong and unreasonable requiring the Petitioner to 
compare her awards with upper echelon of her field," citing to Muni v. INS 891 F. Supp. 440, 445 
(1995), a case involving a professional athlete in which the court rejected "an assumption ... that a 
player must be one of the League's superstars to be considered to have extraordinary ability." She 
further asserts that we erred by observing that she "did not show she received significant attention 
demonstrating her sustained national or international acclaim" as a result of the awards she received. 
While the Petitioner correctly argues that she need not establish that she is one of the foremost 
"superstars" in her field, or that there is no one more accomplished than she is, she nevertheless must 
provide sufficient context for us to evaluate whether her awards and other achievements support a 
finding that she is qualified for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. As we stated 
in our decision, such context could be provided, for instance, through comparisons of her achievements 
to those recognized as being at the top of the field, but our decision does not reflect that we imposed 
a requirement that she submit this type of evidence. 
With respect to our determination that the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate the recognition 
she received as a result of her awards, we noted that, for certain awards, the evidence in the record 
was limited to her award certificate and a published list of winners in each category. The record 
reflects that there are many national photography contests inc=] that are open to both professional 
and amateur photographers alike. We cannot conclude that winning an award, or even several awards, 
at these national competitions would automatically earn a professional photographer sustained national 
acclaim and a place among the small percentage at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner ~laces particular emphasis of her receipt of an "Excellent Photographer" award at the 
14th I I international Photography Festival, noting that this festival bestows "one of the 
top national awards in photography inl I with great international reputation." The evidence 
supports her claim that this is a well-known and prestigious festival and her most notable award, but 
she does not make the same claim or submit similar evidence regarding other awards she has received 
such as the I I' 1st I I Photographers Association Photo raphy Art 
Exhibition, the I t National Photography Competition, and the 3rd ..,__....,........, ....................... National 
Photography Art Exhibition. For all of these reasons, the Petitioner has not esta 1s e that our 
4 
evaluation of evidence related to her awards involved an incorrect application of the law or USCIS 
policy. 
The Petitioner also asserts that we erred in our evaluation of the submitted media coverage about her 
and relating to her work. Specifically, she contends that we incorrectly applied Matter of Chawathe, 
25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010), by focusing on the quantity of evidence submitted without 
discussing the quality of such evidence. In our final merits determination, we concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that "the limited media reporting on her and her activities reflects a career 
of acclaimed work." The Petitioner maintains that she submitted "a good amount" of media coverage, 
including a total of eight articles published between 2009 and 2019. She emphasizes that each article 
is "high quality" and "indicative of her recognition and sustained national acclaim." She also 
highlights certain evidence, noting, for example, that she was interviewed byl !Channel as 
part of its "Master of Photography" on line video series in 2011. The Petitioner also emphasizes media 
reports relating to a 2013 exhibition titled',___ __________________ __. 
I t' which aimed to collect "the most representative photography works and collections of 
famous photographers inl 1"4 She notes that this exhibition also included works b~ I 
who submitted a recommendation letter in support of her petition, and is regarded as "a very top 
photographer inl t· The Petitioner states that this media coverage therefore establishes that she 
"is in line with top tier photographers" and "at the top small percentage." 
While the Petitioner claims that we did not follow the standard for evidentiary review set forth in 
Chawathe, we note that both the quantity and the quality of the submitted evidence are relevant in 
showing whether she has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. The commentary for the proposed regulations 
implementing section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high 
standard be set for [individuals] of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the 
petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 
Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).5 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or USCIS policy by focusing, in part, on the number of articles the Petitioner 
submitted that specifically relate to her and her work as one indicator of whether she has enjoyed "a 
career of acclaimed work" in the field. Our decision reflects that we did not rely solely on this factor 
without consideration of the actual articles and their contents. 
As it relates to our evaluation of her experience as a judge of the work of others in her field in our final 
merits determination, the Petitioner maintains that we made an error of fact in concluding that she has 
only judged local or regional competitions. We emphasized in our decision that an evaluation of the 
significance of the Petitioner's judging experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence 
indicates the required extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 
F. 3d at 1121-22. We acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that she participated as a 
review committee member for three photography exhibitions and noted that the names of the 
competitions indicate national exhibitions. However, we observed that other evidence in the record 
suggested that they were locally organized regional contests rather than nationally or internationally 
4 The Petitioner was not mentioned in the submitted media articles about this exhibition; she provided an excerpt from the 
exhibition book as evidence that her work was included. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
5 
renowned contests. On motion, the Petitioner explains that inl I national exhibitions are often 
coordinated by local organizers with the support of local district government. She also points to 
previously submitted evidence indicating that the competitions she judged accepted entries from 
photographers nationwide. Upon review, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the 
contests she judged were national exhibitions. 
The Petitioner also maintains on motion that her service as a judge in three photography contests is 
"consistent with her reputation and a career of acclaim in photography." She maintains that we applied 
an inappropriate standard in noting the absence of additional evidence that sets her apart from others 
in the field. We acknowledge that the Petitioner's invitations to judge photography competitions 
demonstrate that the contest organizers deem her to be an expert in the field. However, the Petitioner 
has not shown that this acknowledgement rises to the level of acclaim, or that her work in this role for 
three contests between 2016 and 2019 demonstrates recognition that places her near the top of her 
field and indicates sustained national acclaim. 
In our appellate decision, we also observed that the Petitioner's display of her artwork at exhibitions 
does not automatically place her at the top of her field. We acknowledged the exhibition of her work 
at the 14th and 18t~ International Photography Festival, the 2017 I I Photo Festival 
Exhibition, the 6th ~national Photography Exhibition, 2015 I I and the 1st 
.___ ____ __. International Exhibition of Photography. On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we 
erred in our observation that she "did not establish that her work garnered a level of attention or was 
regularly seen at highly reputable venues consistent with being amon that,......... .......... ...,,ercenta e who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." She asserts that and 
major venues of photography exhibitions inl I· and.___ ___ ___. ~----~ are also 
well-known venues for photography exhibitions." The Petitioner maintains that her display of her 
work at these venues in 2013-2015 and 2017-2019 indicates that her work was "regularly exhibited" 
at highly reputable venues and she specifically highlights seven exhibitions that occurred during these 
years. 
While the record establishes that the Petitioner has displayed her work at the listed festivals, it lacks 
sufficient evidence to establish that the inclusion of her work in seven notable exhibitions over a period 
of seven years is indicative of her being among the small percentage of photographers at the very top 
of the field. The Petitioner emphasizes in h r ri f h h r w rk w xhi I n i h f 
I I in the 2013 exhibition ti tied ''----------=..---=-----.......--===r----~~___. I I' and describes him as "a very top photographer in~-~· I I states in his letter 
that he has participated in exhibitions in France, Germany, the United States, and Japan, and that his 
works have been collected in museums in France, Switzerland, and the National Museum of China. I I photographer I ~ alsq....o,ID¥ided a letter in support of the petition and indicates 
that his works were exhibited at the 2015L_J International Photography Festival along with the 
Petitioner's. He states that his work has been exhibited in more than 15 countries and has been 
collected by more than 40 museums worldwide, including the Museum of Modern Art. We emphasize 
that the Petitioner does not need to establish that she has received the same level of national and 
international recognition as those individuals who provided letters in support of her petition. However, 
their achievements provide some context in evaluating the Petitioner's achievements and the 
recognition she has achieved for them, particularly in light of her claim that she is "in line with top 
tier photographers." 
6 
The inclusion of the Petitioner's work in these festivals is a significant achievement and reflects her 
success in her field. However, the evidence does not establish, for example, that the thousands of 
photographs exhibited at each festival are the work of nationally or internationally acclaimed artists at 
the top of their field, or that all artists whose work is included garner such acclaim. She has received 
some recognition in the media and in the field based on the exhibition of her work at some of these 
festivals, but the record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing her from others in the field 
and does not demonstrate that her achievements are at a level that places her among the small 
percentage at the top of the field. The Petitioner has not established on motion that we misapplied the 
law or USCIS policy in reaching this conclusion based on the evidence she submitted. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our conclusion that the submitted letters from experts 
"did not establish that she has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting 
a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner emphasizes that she does not need to demonstrate that she met the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance in order to qualify for the requested classification. She 
also emphasizes that the letters provided are from "very reputable and top artists in the field" who 
testify that she has obtained national acclaim and is at the top of the field. The Petitioner maintains 
that "their testimonies confirmed the Petitioner's career of acclaim have been recognized and should 
be taken into account." 
Our appellate decision did not impose a requirement that she meet an additional criterion in the final 
merits determination. We addressed the evidence submitted in support of the original contributions 
criterion because the Petitioner initially claimed that she could satisfy that criterion. However, we did 
not dismiss the appeal, in whole or in part, based on a finding that she did not satisfy the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Rather, we acknowledged her claim that she had made contributions to the 
field and evaluated those contributions in terms of whether the evidence reflects that they contributed 
to her national or international acclaim. Further, our decision reflects that we reviewed and considered 
each of the submitted expert opinion letters; the Petitioner does not sufficiently explain her assertion 
that we failed to take them into account. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence before us at the time of our decision or that it was based on a 
misapplication of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
In support of her motion to reopen the Petitioner submits new evidence intended to demonstrate that 
she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others 
in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). She has not previously claimed to meet this criterion, but 
maintains that the new evidence demonstrates that her "annua1
1 compe1sation as a photographer is also 
in the top small percentage of the photographer profession in and, when considered together 
7 
with other documentation in the record, supports a conclusion that she is eligible for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner explains that her primary compensation as a photographer is derived from a gallery that 
she runs, the sale of her photography artwork to private collectors, and other photographic projects. 
She states that her 2018 compensation "was at least about RMB2.9 Million Yuan (equivalent to US 
Dollar $437,405)." In support of her claim, she submits excerpts from her 20181 I 
Bank account transaction history, two Artwork Purchase Contracts and one Agreement for Personal 
Entrusted Project, all executed in 2018. This evidence indicates that she sold two series of photographs 
(55 photographs) to a private collector in January 2018 for ¥2.59 million, a series of five photographs 
to the same collector in November 2018 for ¥280,000 and received ¥25,000 for the referenced project. 
She also provides a 2018 Salary Survey Report for the occupation of "Photographer in I I 
I· pub I ished byl I. found at 
The survey reports on a sample size of 135 salaried 
photographers and provides base pay and other compensation information (annual allowances, 
performance pay, project income, personal works sales revenue, etc.). The survey indicates an average 
"annual total of cash pay" of ¥437,152 and a 90th percentile of ¥552,075. The Petitioner also submits 
salary data from Salary Explorer, which indicates average monthly earnings of ¥16,500 and high 
earnings of ¥25,800 for persons working as photographers inl I inclusive of salary, allowances 
and benefits. However, the Petitioner indicates that she is self-employed and does not receive a 
monthly base salary and allowances. Therefore, we cannot conclude that the submitted surveys 
provide a meaningful compensation comparison for evaluating the relative income of a self-employed 
photographer. 
The submitted contracts indicate that the Petitioner sold many pieces from some of her most notable 
photographic series6 to a private collector in 2018 for a unit price of ¥38,960 to ¥56,000, or in the 
range of $5900 to $8450 per photograph. The record does not provide any context for these sales 
prices that would allow us to determine whether this represents significantly high remuneration in 
comparison to other photographers who sell to private collectors. Further, while this new evidence 
of sales to a private collector demonstrates some degree of recognition of her achievements in the 
field, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing her earnings are at a level reflecting that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. Nor does she demonstrate that the 
newly documented sales of her artwork from a single year reflect her sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner also submits new evidence on motion in response to our observation that she did not 
demonstrate that her service as vice chairperson to the I I I I and thel I Women Photographers Association resulted in her national or 
international acclaim as a hoto ra her. The new evidence consists of two articles both titled C=1 
' posted at the websites of the Photographers Association and ,.__ __ ___, ,.._____, ,.__ __ ~ ~-~ 
6 For example, the January 2018 contract indicates that a private collector purchased "30 photographs"""ot.._.l ___ ~ 
series," the series for which the Petitioner received an "Excellent Photographer" award at the 14th ~I --~a~, ~I 
International Photography Festival in 2014. 
8 
The articles list the members of the exhibition's 15-member 
organizing committee by providing their names and the association with which they are connected. 
The articles identi the Petitioner as 
I !,~------~----~----~---·" The Petitioner 
maintains that her service to these associations "caused her being selected as a member of the 
Organizing Committee" for this competition, and, by virtue of the published articles, "caused her 
national acclaim in the field." This new evidence, which is comparable to other evidence that we 
previously considered, is not sufficient to overcome our previous determination that the Petitioner has 
not shown how her association memberships and officer-level roles withl !photography 
associations have contributed significantly to her national or international acclaim as an artist. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's additional evidence on motion does not show her sustained 
national or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. Accordingly, we will deny her motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does her new evidence on motion demonstrate her eligibility for the benefit sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15255769 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a social and racquet sports club, seeks classification for the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability as a squash coach. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as a squash professional and instructor. 1 The record 
shows that the Beneficiary competed as a squash athlete on the ~-------------~ World Tour from 2007 to 2013, and since 2008 has participated as a squash coach in Qatar, South 
Africa, and the United States. The Petitioner indicates that it intends to continue its employment of 
the Beneficiary as a squash coach. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the 
Beneficiary meets five of the evidentiary criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we partially disagree with the Director and find that she meets one of the evidentiary criteria. 
However, we agree that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification, and that she does not qualify as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
1 The record indicates that she is employed pursuant to 0-1 nonimmigrant status, valid through August 31, 2021. 
2 Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond 
to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal or on motion. See Matter of 
Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore 
not consider this newly submitted evidence in our decision. 
2 
The plain language of this criterion sets forth several elements which the Petitioner must establish in 
order to successfully show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. First, it must be shown that she 
received a prize or award. Second, that prize or award must have been given to the Beneficiary for 
her excellence in the field for which she claim eligibility. Third, the Petitioner must show that the 
prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
In his decision, the Director concluded that while the record includes award certificates, it did not 
include sufficient evidence to show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized. He 
also noted that official rankings do not constitute evidence of prizes or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner lists evidence which refers to several of the Beneficiary's accomplishments 
as a squash player, some of which constitute prizes or awards and others which do not. For example, 
this list refers to articles appearing in The Peninsula, a newspaper distributed in Qatar, which mention 
that the Beneficiary will play in upcoming tournaments and is sponsored by local companies, but do 
not mention her receipt of an award. Similarly, selection for a particular team, such as the 
Beneficiary's selection to the University Sport I I team and thel I I I provincial squad, is certainly an accomplishment, but the evidence does not show 
that the certificates given to commemorate these accomplishments are themselves prizes or awards. 3 
However, the evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on the I I provincial squash 
team also shows that that team won a number ofl I tournaments, which later became 
known as thel I Interprovincial Team Championship. The Petitioner submitted certificates 
and photographs which show her membership on the team in 2015, 2018 and 2019, and a letter from 
the Chairman of.__ ________ __,confirms her membership on the team for 13 ears since 
2002. He also writes that the Beneficiary helped the.__ _____ _. team win the six 
times, which is corroborated in part by an article from thesquashsite.com covering the 2019.___~ I I Interprovincials which indicates that the team was victorious seven times in the past decade. 
In addition a 2007 article posted to the website gsport.co.za indicates that I I won the I :1 in 2002 and 2003. Together, this evidence demonstrates that as one of five members of 
the.__ _____ .,.... squad for the Interprovincial Team Championship, the Beneficiary received 
awards for excellence in her field. Further, as the evidence indicates that the Interprovincial Team 
Championship is the top national tournament for squash teams in I l it is a nationally 
recognized award in the field. Therefore, we disagree with the Director and conclude that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that the individual was a 
member of an association within their field of expertise, that membership required outstanding 
3 We note that the Petitioner's brief characterizes the evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on the~I ____ _ 
squad as i I National Team annual selection," but the evidence does not show that she was selected as a 
national team member. In any event, selection for a team does not constitute an award for purposes of this criterion. 
3 
achievements, and that those making the membership determination were themselves national or 
internal experts in their field. 
The Petitioner, in its initial filing as well as in response to the Director's RFE, contended that the 
Beneficiary's membership on several teams and employment with squash clubs allow her to meet this 
criterion. The Director concluded that most of these "are not germane to this criterion," but did not 
provide an explanation for this conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts these claims, and refers 
to evidence in the record which it claims supports them. Also, for each association membership 
claimed by the Petitioner, it lists as "outstanding achievements" the Beneficiary's selection for 
membership and her subsequent accomplishments as a member. However, this criterion calls for 
evidence of outstanding achievements as a requirement for membership, and therefore focuses on 
achievements judged to be outstanding that occurred prior to acceptance as a member. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's membership in thec=J, this is confirmed in a letter from the association's 
tour director, which also states that she achieved a ranking of 53rd on thec=J World Tour in October 
2011. Another letter, from th~' s chief executive officer, goes into greater detail in describing the ~ World Tour, including several levels of tournaments and membership. Although the letters 
confirm that the Beneficiary was a "world member," competed in the World Championships, and 
reached the quarter final round in three tournaments, they do not describe the requirements for a world 
member or indicate that they are reviewed by recognized squash experts. 
The Benerciary'ls position on teams including the I IInter}rovincial Championship 
squad, the student squash team and the University of1._ ____ ___,women's squash team is 
also supported by reference letters. While we disagree with the Director's conclusion that these 
memberships are "not germane," this evidence does not demonstrate that her membership on these 
teams meets the requirements of this criterion. Regarding the[ I team, a letter from the coach of 
the 2004 team on which the Beneficiary played states that she was one of four women from alll I 
I I universities selected for the team, which toured I I However, the letter does not 
indicate· the criteria for selection or who made the selection, and other letters referenced in the 
Petitioner's brief simply confirm her membership and were not written by those with first-hand 
knowledge. 
Similarly, a letter from the chairman of~....,.....-.,-----,-----,--,--~ corrfirms the Ben,7iary'sll 
membership on thel lteam, and explains that the results from tournaments in the 
league are considered and the five best players selected. As with the evidence regarding the 
team, the letter does not specify any outstanding achievements required for membership, and does not 
indicate that those making the selection for this provincial team are recognized as national or 
international experts. 
The Petitioner also refers to letters pertaining to the Benefici~ployment as a squash coach and 
professional with squash clubs and training facilities such as L__JAcademy and The Country Club I I We first note that the criterion requires evidence of "membership in associations," 
which has a "different meaning than "employment." In addition, while the writers of these letters 
indicate that the Beneficiary was well-qualified to fill these roles due to her experience as a squash 
competitor and coach, they do not establish that they required achievements beyond those of any other 
employer seeking to hire the most qualified job candidate. 
4 
Lastly, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's selections as a coach for the .... l _____ _. I I andl I meet the requirements of this criterion. In support of its claim of 
the Beneficiary's selection as a regional coach byl l the Petitioner refers to a letter from this 
organization's president and chief executive officer dated August 12, 2020 and submitted on appeal. 
However, as previously noted, where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence 
and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence 
offered for the first time on appeal or on motion. 4 
As for the Beneficiary's position as a coach for the0 the record includes a letter from .... l __ _. I lthe organization's former technical secretary, which confirms that she accepted this position 
in 2014 and began recr~iting "t etes to build a team. A lthoughl I notes that she was the first 
female squash coach i which was important in allowing women to learn and play squash in 
the coyn~rv,ke letter does not establish that the Beneficiary's membership or employment as a coach 
for th as based upon outstanding achievements. 
Based upon the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must establish that material was published, that it was 
about the Beneficiary and her work as a squash athlete or coach, and that the medium in which it was 
published is a professional, major trade or other major medium. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted several articles which are about the Beneficiary and her work as a 
squash athlete or coach. Two such articles were published in The Peninsula, datedl I 2008 
an~ l -2009, while a third article about her in this newspaper does not include a date. Other 
articles in the record about the Beneficiary were published in Woman magazine inl I 2010 and 
Abode magazine. While the Petitioner submitted additional articles, the majority of these briefly 
mentioned the Beneficiary in reporting upon squash competitions in which she participated, and thus 
were about the competitions and not her. Also, one article which was posted on the website 
www.gsport.co.za with the tag "Personal Account" does not list an author and appears to have been 
written by the Beneficiary. 
As to whether the media which published articles about the Beneficiary were one of the qualifying 
types under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence from those publications' websites and 
those of the publishing companies. This evidence states that The Peninsula is an English-language 
daily newspaper published and distributed inl I and boasted the "3rd best news website in the 
Middle East in 2017." We note that the evidence does not indicate the source of this claim, and that 
4 See Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
5 
both articles about the Beneficiary were published well before 2017. This evidence is therefore not 
sufficient to establish that The Peninsula qualifies as a major medium. 
Regarding the article published in Woman, the Petitioner submitted information about Gulf Times, 
another English-language newspaper and publishing company inl I from its website. This 
evidence provides information about the history of the company and r,ublication, and includes that 
statement that it "is th~~-----------------~" However, we need not rely 
on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. 
CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on 
the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media.) In 
addition, neither the article nor the evidence regarding the newspaper verifies the claimed relationship 
between it and Woman, the publication in which the article appeared. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided information which indicates that Abode has been in publication since 
2011 and is based inl I However, this evidence does not include circulation figures or other 
data that establishes that Abode qualifies as a major medium. 
After review and for the reasons described above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To successfully establish that an individual meets this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrat that the 
role played for an organization with a distinguished reputation was either leading or critical. If a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that the individual is ( or was) a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. On the other 
hand, if the role is claimed to be critical, the evidence must establish that the individual has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the individual's performance in the role is 
(or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the individual's role, but rather their performance 
in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner first focuses on the Beneficia 's role with the I I inl I A reference letter from=====~::-==-=--==~-=--·L....w_h_o_st-a-te_s_t_h_a_t-sh_e_w_a_s_i......1n 
charge of the Female Multisport Skill Development program at===~-' states that the Beneficiary was 
"a critical part of the development of the first national female squash team id I" She indicates 
that the Beneficia~art of the first team of female coaches ( one of six) hired to develop a sports 
skills program foiL__J girls, which introduced girls to sports. I _ I farther indicates that 
the Beneficiary oversaw the Talent Center where she selected athletes forl Is female sports 
teams, and wrote the squash coach program and trained other staff to implement it. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
The Beneficiary's role atl I is also confirmed in two letters fro~ I a 
highly-ranked squash player froltj lwho trained atl I and a letter fro~ I 
former technical expert for the.__ ________ _. As further evidence of the criticality of the 
Beneficiary's role at I , ) an article written bJ other I I employees notes that its Talent 
Identification Programme is "the foundation of the l's success." Considered together, this 
evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary played a critical role at I I 
As to the reputation ofi I the Petitioner refers to information on its website. Although the website 
boasts that "By 2020, we will be recognized as the world's leading sports academy in the development 
of youth athletes," an~ I writes thatl I "is regarded as a beacon of excellence in sports 
and education," these statements are not sufficient to establish its reputation in the broader field of 
sports training institutions. 
In addition, when responding to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner submitted an 
article posted on the website bleacherreport.com titled ~---~~ Although the article is very compliment .... a-ry-to- ........ _-_ -_ -_ -_:-s_t_a-ti_n_g_t_h_a_t -it-"h_a_s-ri-s-en_t_o_t_h~e 
forefront ofleading sporting centres around the world," we note that the article's author is listed as I I' and that it was previously featured on a blog site. As the source and affiliation of the author 
of this material is not identified, it does not establish that those outside of th~ I organization hold 
it in high regard. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Beneficiary's role in its own organization is a leading one. In his 
decision, the Director noted that the letters from the Petitioner's general manager and director of 
squash did not distinguish the Beneficiary from other coaches in its organization or otherwise show 
her overall influence on the Petitioner's organization. On appeal, the Petitioner highlights certain 
passages in these and other letters. In the case of the general manager's letter, these passages concern 
the importance of hiring "highest world caliber" squash coaches like the Beneficiary to maintain the 
club's reputation, and that she meets this standard through her previous coaching experience. 
Similarly, the letter from the Petitioner's director of squash describes the Beneficiary's qualifications, 
and that she has helped to raise the rankings of junior athletes who train at the club. She also describes 
the Beneficiary as "an incredible asset to our. .. coaching team" and states that junior players are 
benefitting from her expertise. However, neither letter indicates that she holds a leadership position 
in the Petitioner's organization, but is instead a member of its coaching team. As to whether the 
Beneficiary plays a critical role for the Petitioner, these letters indicate that she has helped junior 
players to raise their rankings, but do not demonstrate that any specific contributions she made were 
of significant importance to the Petitioner's overall operations. Although the employment of coaches 
in general is important to a racquet club and facility such as the Petitioner, this evidence does not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's performance as a coach was critical to its success. 
In addition, the Petitioner asserts on afrpeal that the Beneficiary also plays a leading role forl I 
as a regional coach for thel region. However, as previously noted, we will not consider new 
evidence on appeal where the Petitioner has previously been afforded an opportunity to submit 
evidence. In addition, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the evidence did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
salary of $79,194 in 2019 was high when compared to other coaches. He specifically focused on the 
salary data provided from the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) 
and the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), and noted that they did not show the salaries earned by top 
squash coaches inl I or the United States. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional 
evidence obtained from these sources, as well as from the CareerOneStop website. Because evidence 
from these sources was previously submitted and is publicly available, we will consider this new 
evidence. 
As the evidence reflects the salary paid to the Beneficiary by the Petitioner in 2019, the appropriate 
basis for comparison is with other coaches in I I in that year. While there is a slight 
disparity in the average wage reported from these sources, with a range between $48,090 and $58,400, 
the 75th and 90th percentile wages are consistently shown as $73,640 and $100,730, respectively. 
Although this evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary's 2019 salary was above average, it is not 
sufficient to establish that it was high in relation to other coaches inl I Therefore, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) states that if the evidentiary criteria do not readily apply to 
the individual's occupation, comparable evidence may be submitted to establish eligibility. On appeal, 
the Petitioner refers to articles in the record about the role of sports coaches in general, as well as 
letters concerning the impact of the Beneficiary's coaching on her students, and concludes that their 
accomplishments serve as evidence of her "rating/standing in the field." However, the regulation 
allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's 
occupation. 6 A petitioner should explain why it has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least 
three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence it has included is 
"comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why it cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that fulfills at least three is not evidence 
that a squash coach could not do so. As discussed, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary meets 
five of the ten evidentiary criteria. In addition, the Petitioner did not show that coaches cannot present 
evidence relating to the other criteria. As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary is 
eligible to meet additional criteria through the submission of comparable evidence. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 Id. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary enjoys the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904080 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art museum, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a curator, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a I I art museum, has employed the Beneficiary in the endowed 
position of I !Associate Curator for I I Art since 2014 and 
seeks to continue her employment in this role. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the 
Beneficiary's eligibility under six of these ten criteria. 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfies the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), respectively, and the record supports this conclusion. The 
Petitioner has provided evidence of the Beneficiary's authorship of books, book chapters, and 
scholarly articles published in professional publications, as well as evidence of her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in the field, specifically as a member of doctoral panels, and award and 
fellowship committees. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked or failed to properly weigh evidence 
relating to published materials about the Beneficiary, her original contributions to her field, the display 
of her work at exhibitions or showcases, and her leading or critical role with its organization. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), (vii) and (viii). The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary satisfies at 
least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
We conclude that the record establishes that the Beneficiary satisfies the leading or critical roles 
criterion based on her role with the Petitioner, which has established itsl I 
,.__ ______ __. museums in the United States. The Director determined that the Petitioner's 
evidence was insufficient because it relied, in part, on letters from experts who work outside the 
organization that attested to the critical nature of the work the Beneficiary performs for the Petitioner. 
2 
However, both the initial petition and the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) were accompanied by supporting letters from high-level employees of its organization who 
described the Beneficiary's position and her performance in that role in considerable detail and were 
sufficient to establish that she performs in a leading or critical role consistent with the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner described the Beneficiary's responsibilities, the impact of 
her role on the museum, and submitted supporting evidence, including its annual report and critical 
reviews in major media, which highlight that the exhibitions, research, educational activities, and other 
projects for which she is responsible ~-------------------~ I I) are of significant importance to the organization as a whole. 
The Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria I isted at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), therefore, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence 
submitted in support of the remaining claimed criteria, in the context of the final merits determination 
below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
conclude that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary has bachelor's degrees in art history and modern languages, 
and a master's de ree in visual anthro ology. She later obtained a master of arts focused on the Arts 
of from the~--~----~ at the University otc=J 
. , where she also received her doctorate degree in 2007. She completed 
two post-doctoral research fellowships at the University ofl I 
I I between 2008 and 2014, during which time she also provided exhibition curatorial 
support for I I art exhibitions for museums in Switzerland, Germany, Bel ium Scotland and 
England. As noted, since, 2014, the Beneficia!Y has served in the position of.___ ___ .--__ __, I !Associate Curator for I IArt in the Petitioner's Department of Arts I I .__~ 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary's critical role with the Petitioner, one otl I art 
museums, is a high profile position that has earned her national and international acclaim in her field 
and recognition as one of the top curators and scholars in~------~· The exhibitions 
she has curated for the Petitioner have earned positive critical reviews in major U.S. media such as 
The New Yorker, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, as well as in international 
publications. In addition, the Beneficiary and her work have consistently been the subject of 
interviews and articles in media publications throughout her tenure with the Petitioner. For example, 
articles about the Beneficiary and her work have appeared in professional publications included Art 
Asia Pacific magazine, in a publication of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, in mainstream 
media publications, and in Cultural Survival Quarterly, which is focused on the preservation of the 
cultures of the indigenous people. She has also been invited to provide her expertise inl I 
3 
I lart to film and video projects made for television in New Zealand, for other museums, and for 
.=I ==~~I. an educational partner ofl I 
In addition, the record reflects that, as a result of her acclaimed work and recognition in her area of 
expertise, and in connection with her high-profile role with the Petitioner, the Beneficiary is frequently 
invited to serve as a panelist, lecturer and note address s eaker at events, conferences and symposia 
hosted by prominent institutions such as University olle e) I University, the I I Museum the Arts Council o~ I the , University of I I. th of Arts and th In 2019, the Beneficiary 
was invited by the,__-~-------------- to serve as a visiting faculty 
member for its prestigious.___ ___________ ~_..,.,...., and she has participated as a 
judge of the work of others in her field by serving on doctoral panels and award and fellowship 
committees. 
In addition to her highly visible role as a curator, the record reflects that the Beneficiary remains 
especially active in publication of scholarly research in her field. She has authored a considerable 
number of articles that were published in distinguished professional journals and has authored books 
and book chapters as well as contributing to the Petitioner's major exhibition bulletins and catalogs. 
The Petitioner has also documented her membership in the.___ ____________ ___, 
where she and other leaders of the organization coordinated three 
international conferences held in Canada, New Zealand and Australia, as well as panel events held 
throughout North America. 
Finally, the Petitioner has submitted several detailed letters from experts in the Beneficiary's field who 
discuss and provide context to her contributions and achievements and the scope of the recognition 
she has received for them . .___ _______ ___,of I !University explains that the 
Beneficiary "brings a singular perspective and set of curatorial skills that have enabled her to expand 
the profile ofl lat [the Petitioner's museum]," and describes her as "an innovator whose 
ri orous and creative curatorial work has expanded the accepted canon of world art histo to include 
r------,.. ____ _Jarts." I I Director of the UniversityL-------1------...._J 
.___ __ __.Art Collection, indicates "as a fellow curator and academic specializing in.___ __ __.art 
in the United States, I can state with confidence that [the Petitioner] is one of the foremost experts in 
the world in our field" and "has opened up the world ofl lart to viewers in the United States." 
She mentions the Beneficiary's "expansion of [the Petitioner's] contemporary.___ ______ __. 
art, and her creation of important opportunities fo art and artists, who she has elevated to 
an increasingly visible position within the wider art world.",__ __ ~ describes in further detail the 
influence of the Beneficiary's curatorial approach in their shared field, and concludes by stating that 
the Petitioner's "significant scholarly and curatorial achievements in the field ofl I I I art have been revolutionary and continue to inspire the museum community at an international 
level." 
.___ _____ ___, Director of the University,__ ______ ~ Research Unit, states that he 
"can affirm without question that [the Beneficiary] is a world-renowned expert" on the art of the 
.___ _____ ____. region and asserts that "an art history professional must be at the very top of their 
field to even work for [the Petitioner]." I J also emphasizes the Petitioner's "sole 
responsibility for a wide range of curatorial duties that relate to the care of the hugely significant 
4 
collection of art at the Petitioner's museum], including her involvement in an on oin 
~----~project." ,___ _______ __. Di rector Emeritus ofL_ __ -r----7-__J 
discusses the Beneficiary's curatorial vision for updates to the Petitioner's.____~ galleries, 
explaining that the renovation dergns "wlll have an enormous impact internationally and stand to 
influence museum installations of art across the world." He describes the renovation as "a 
once-in-a-generation undertaking, and [the Beneficiary] was the only choice to lead this project due 
to her world-renowned expertise in the art ofl I' I I, former Vice President of the 
Arts for thd O l highlights the Beneficiary's achievements at the 
Petitioner's museum, noting her "commitment to advancing and evolvinr her fitd and describing 
her as "the leading voice of her generation in the highly specialized area of art in the museum 
industry." 
Based on the foregoing letters and others not discussed here, the evidence establishes that the 
Beneficiary's critical role with the Petitioner and her related contributions to the museum field, art 
curation, and scholarship in~-----~art have garnered her sustained acclaim and placed 
her among the small percentage at the top of a field in which the Petitioner maintains a prominent 
position as a leading institution. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record 
supports a finding that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of her field of endeavor 
with sustained national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). It has also demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national and international acclaim and that her achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, the record reflects that the Beneficiary intends 
to continue working in her area of expertise and that her admission will benefit prospectively the 
United States. Therefore, she qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15277004 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a production professional in the television and motion picture industry, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 2045(h)(3) . He reached the same conclusion after granting the Petitioner's combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner now appeals the Director's decision on her combined 
motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a production professional who has worked on television and motion picture products 
in a variety of roles. She states that she intends to continue to work in this area in the United States.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 2 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The record shows that the Petitioner has been employed in the television and motion picture industry in the United States 
for several years pursuant to 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
2 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (vi) relating to 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, participation as a judge of the work of others, and authorship of 
published scholarly articles, she does not contest the Director's decision relating to these criteria on appeal or otherwise 
refer to them in her appeal brief. We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 
l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
The Petitioner asserts that she is a member of three associations in her field which require outstanding 
achievements: 
I The Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG­
AFTRA) 
I The Producers Guild of America (PGA) 
I The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers 
Regarding her membership in SAG-AFTRA, she submitted a letter dated April 9, 2016 from this 
association which stated that her employment "as al ~ I I' qualified her for membership. In addition, she submitted an email and associated 
application which concerned a project she was producing which required SAG-AFTRA approval. 
While these documents show that she was eligible for, and invited to, SAG-AFTRA membership, and 
has submitted paperwork to the association regarding a movie project, they do not serve to establish 
that she is a member. 
In addition, even if we were to conclude that the Petitioner had established her membership in SAG­
AFTRA, the evidence does not demonstrate that this association requires outstanding achievements of 
its members. Notably, the letter inviting her to membership clearly states that she qualified based 
upon her work as a background performer, and does not mention any further requirements. The 
Petitioner has not asserted or submitted evidence to demonstrate that as a requirement for membership, 
such a performance is considered to be an outstanding achievement among others in her field. In 
addition, while the Petitioner notes on appeal that in the invitation letter, SAG-AFTRA is referred to 
as "the most distinguished performer's union in the world," and that membership "is a significant rite 
of passage and proof of your professional status," neither of these statements reflect its membership 
requirements. Further, she does not dispute the Director's characterization of the association's 
membership requirements, which were taken from its website. 
Regarding the other two associations to which the Petitioner claims membership, she refers on appeal 
to letters submitted in support of previous 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions on her behalf from each 
of these associations. Both letters indicate that the associations reviewed her qualifications and 
express the opinion that she is qualified for the requested nonimmigrant visa classification. However, 
neither letter refers to her membership in the associations, and the record does not include other 
evidence to support the Petitioner's assertion. Also, the record does not include information regarding 
the membership requirements for these associations. Therefore, we agree with the Director and 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director noted in his decision on the Petitioner's motion that some of the evidence submitted 
under this criterion was illegible, that other evidence consisted only of links to websites, and that the 
record lacked evidence to show that articles about the Petitioner and her work in the field were 
published in a qualifying medium under this criterion. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that all of the website links she provided are active, and again lists 
links to several websites, including two radio or podcast interviews. However, we note that it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). This includes 
the submission of evidence into the record to support that eligibility. Here, the weblinks themselves 
are not published material about the Petitioner, and the record does not include transcripts of the 
podcasts, or copies of the articles, by which we are able to determine whether she was interviewed 
about her work in the field of movie and television production. 
An interview of the Petitioner that is supported by evidence is shown by a letter fro~ I 
I )who states that she conducted an interview for her show lwhich was aired on 
I I TV on I I 2019 and thereafter. The letter indicates that she interviewed the 
Petitioner about her work in the field, and is accompanied by two screenshots. It also states tha~ I I ~Vis a national television channel, but does not provide viewership data for the channel, or the 
show for which the interview was conducted, let alone comparative statistics for other channels and 
shows inl l Although this evidence is sufficient to establish that this interview was about 
the Petitioner and her work as a producer, it does not demonstrate that the interview was published in 
a major medium. 
Additional evidence submitted in support of this criterion includes copies of newspaper articles which 
are about the Petitioner and her work as a production professional. These include the following: 
I 
I 
I ' I I ~I ________.l 2019 .-==============r-1,,-W-e~eke~n-d-A-rg_u_s...,.., I --..-I -20-1~9 
~----~l"Voice,I 12016 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner includes distribution statistics for.___ _______ ~ stating 
that it is the newspaper of.___ _____ ____. and that 302,000 copies per week are distributed. In 
addition, we note that in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), she stated that this 
periodical's daily total readership was 33,085, and also included information regarding the other two 
publications. However, the Petitioner did not indicate the source of this information, or provide 
documentary evidence to support its accuracy. Again, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility through the submission of documentary evidence to support her assertions. 
In addition, in order to show that a periodical or other publication qualifies as a major medium, 
evidence should establish that its circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to the circulation 
statistics of other media.3 Here, the Petitioner has not provided comparative circulation data to 
establish that the periodicals in which material about her was published qualify as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
4 
Other evidence includes an article in~ I, Illinois newspaper which is about filming for a movie 
on which the Petitioner worked that does not mention her, and an undated interview article in Grazia 
magazine in which only one of ten questions focuses on her work as a production professional. This 
material is not about the Petitioner, and the record lacks evidence that either publication qualifies as a 
major medium. 
Based on the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision, the Director focused on the multiple reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, but 
found that they were insufficient to establish that she had made an original contribution of major 
significance. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director's RFE indicated that she did not meet 
this criterion because the evidence did not contain scholarly articles, and also refers to the language in 
the Director's decision regarding "scholarly literature search websites." We note, however, that these 
statements were made when discussing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which pertains to 
the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in her field. The Petitioner does not dispute the 
Director's findings regarding her contributions to the field of movie and television production, and 
therefore does not establish that she meets this criterion.4 In addition, she does not indicate that the 
paper she references on appeal is a contribution of major significance to her field. As such, we 
conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I confirming that she contributed in a 
variety of roles to productions which were displayed at arts festivals. She also submitted evidence 
showing that she was credited in films which were screened at film festivals, includin\:JI I 
at the Cannes International Film Festival and others. We agree with the Director that she meets this 
criterion. 
4 The Petitioner does not specifically indicate that she is challenging the Director's decision relating to her authorship of 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) on appeal, and we therefore consider this issue to be waived. However, 
because she appears to assert that claim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we briefly note that the evidence she presented 
earlier and on appeal does not meet the requirements of that criterion. Specifically, although she created a Google Scholar 
profile which lists a paper, I , t· and submitted a partial copy of this paper, this 
evidence does not indicate that the paper was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media 
as required. 
5 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence that shows that her work has been displayed at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. However, we find that she does not satisfy the criteria relating to 
membership in an association requiring outstanding achievements, published material about her, and 
contributions of major significance. Although she also claims eligibility for an additional criteria on 
appeal, relating to a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach that 
additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve that issue.5 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 55822191 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is extremely well-known" among charitable organizations in the United 
States, Israel, Europe and the countries of the former Soviet Union for his fundraising, consultinf and 
project management work with the I I and the I The 
Petitioner's resume reflects that, after graduating from I I University with degrees in geography 
and African history, he worked for the from 2002 until 2015, initially as a 
representative in Ukraine and Later, he served as the donor relations and development 
coordinator the ,__ ____ ___,s organizational headquarters in I I as its country 
representative in Ukraine, as the regional director for Central Asia (based in Uzbekistan), and, most 
recently, as the Director General of the I I Russia representative office. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has been self Tmployd as a consultant in Florida since 2016, and has 
n n will be working as a fundraiser and consultant for the southeast office of thel I 
American Section inl I as the director of ·I J for the non-profit 
and as a consultant and fund raiser for I I an organization that ,.__-------,--.,........,.,,------,---' supports underprivileged youth and single parent families. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has claimed to meet three of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets the three claimed 
criteria and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets only one criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore has not established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the evidence establishes that the Petitioner is highly experienced as a 
fundraiser, consultant and project manager and has made contributions in his field. However, he 
determined that the record lacks evidence of the impact or influence of those contributions and does 
not establish their "major significance." 
On appeal, counsel asserts that the Petitioner's contributions exceed the "major significance" standard 
required by this criterion, emphasizing that "his contributions were life saving and life altering." He 
further explains: 
[The Petitioner] made and continues to make significant contributions of major 
si nificance in his field of endeavor -the very special and unique field ofl I, the 
,___ __________ ~ ... The evidence provided ... is very clear about what 
he did to bring,____~ people and especially youn eo le who, for various reasons 
lost their parents and support of their countries . In many instances he 
was the only one who would be working t,..__ __ _.these kids fro~ ~ and 
war-torn nations to thP.I r ... His contribution only can be measured in 
the human I ives he saved and the futures that he was able to secure for the persecuted 
and unfortunate. 
We recognize that the nature of the work the Petitioner has performed for th~~-------~ 
and other organizations has a significant impact on the lives of the individuals who receive sup
1port for
1 their,___ _____ __. and other humanitarian assistance. The Petitioner's work as an 
consultant, fundraiser and project director is well documented in the record through reference letters 
and other evidence.1 For example,,___ ____ __. a Senior Representative of thel I I I in North America, confirms that the Petitioner "took a leading role in numerous 
international projects, among them rescue operation in war turn Gear~ helping to save lives of 
man~ ltamilies fleeing of war mess and bringing them safely tol__Jon special flights."D 
1 While we do not discuss all of the submitted reference letters and letters of gratitude submitted, we have reviewed and 
considered each one. 
3 
I I also recogni~Petitioner's successful involvement in "efforts to raise funds and 
humanitarian support fotl__J people around the world, who seek assistance and humanitarian help." 
In addition, he credits the Petitioner's initiation and organization of projects in numerous countries as 
a regional director tori I and praises his focus, determination, and dedication to 
humanitarian values. 
I I president of thd I discusses the organization'g I project 
and states that the Petitioner "remains the main driving force and the principal leader of this extremely 
special endeavor aiming to help secure a better future for underprivileged youth in distressed areas of 
the world." He praises the Petitioner's "enthusiasm, leadership, rich experience, world-wide 
connections and other talents that make our organization capable of helping and saving the most 
underprivileged and giving them the gift of a better future." 
This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that his contributions have significantly impacted or 
influenced the field in which he works. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance in the field and his impaJ-<-1--l-<.U.... .................... .....,.ent work add value. 2 The 
letters submitted here are all comparable t sand s letter in content and do 
not discuss how the Petitioner's projects with .___ ________ ____.and other organizations 
have impacted the field, rather than individuals who have received assistance from his employers. The 
record documents the Petitioner's contributions to fulfilling .___ _____ ____.s mission and we 
recognize his critical role with the organization below, but it does not demonstrate the significance or 
influence of his work in the broader field. 
In the appellate brief, counsel asserts that the Petitioner "was the first individual that was able to 
establish rules and procedures related tol lr.hildren from dilapidated countries of Former Soviet 
Union I I' noting "it was not done before in modern history, after WWII." However, he does 
not elaborate and his statement that the Petitioner was responsible for establishing the referenced "rules 
and procedures" is not adequately supported by other evidence in the record, or by evidence that such 
rules and procedures were adopted or implemented by other organizations in the field or otherwise 
recognized as influential or majorly significant in the field. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record 
with independent evidence. 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading.3 Regarding a 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icyman ual/HTM L/Po I icy Manual. htm I 
3 Id. at 10. 
4 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 4 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had submitted evidence related to his roles at tha._ _ ____, I land the,___ ______ __, However, the Director determined that the evidence 
was insufficient to establish that he performed in leading or critical roles for either organization. He 
further found that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that either organization has a distinguished 
reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "made an error by not reading all the 
documents submitted." 
While we agree with the Director that the record does not establish that the,___ ______ _, a 
Florida non-profit company established in 2015, enjoys a distinguished reputation~ the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of thP.I J I 
In addition, letters from persons familiar with his work with th~._ ____ ____,~ and other evidence 
in the record, provide sufficient explanation of the Petitioner's performance in senior roles to establish 
that those roles have been critical to the outcome of the organization's activities in several targeted 
regions. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In a cover letter provided in support of the petition, the Petitioner indicates that "[a]s a professional 
fund raiser and activist [the Petitioner] was [a] highly paid professional averaging hundreds of 
thousands of dollars for his job throu h the ears." His initial evidence in support of this criterion 
included an undated letter from the,___.======-=======lsummarizinq the Petitioner's terms of 
service as a senior representative of the,___ _______ ~ inl I Russia from August 
2009 until August 2015.5 According to this letter, his remuneration included monthly gross wages of 
$6000, as well as monthly "representative fees," compensation for rent expenses, an "education fund," 
and "children education funding at the place of service." 
The Petitioner provided evidence that the private school his children attended inl Jbilled 
thel lfor their 2014-2015 school year tuition and fees. However, he did not 
document his actual salary earnings or total remuneration received during his period of employment 
for the I I in_ I The Petitioner also submitted data on "Average Russian 
NGO salaries" from SimplyHired, which indicates an average salary of $25,000 but states that 
"average Russian NGO salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and 
benefits." 
The Petitioner's initial evidence also included his 2017 IRS Form W-2 froml t=J 
U.S.-based consulting company) indicating that he was paid $12,000 in wages. He provided 
4 Id. 
5 According to the Petitioner's resume and the employment history he provided on his concurrently filed 1-485, Application 
to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, he worked for th~ 0 I as its Regional Director in I I from January 2014 until August 2015. 
5 
~----~~s 2017 corporate federal tax return, which reflects his receipt of $13,389 in ordinary 
business income based on his 50% ownership interest in the company. He did not provide comparative 
evidence to demonstrate that he earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to 
others working in his occupation in the United States during that year. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), counsel for the Petitioner stated: 
[The Petitioner] was dispatched and worked in mostly Former Soviet Union States ... 
For his work he was paid significant amount of money, compared to local population 
and also he was provided with transportation, housing allowance, private school tuition 
for his children and other perks attributed to his position. It is not easy to compare his 
salary to the local population due to uniqueness of his job asl I consultant, but due 
to deteriorating post-Soviet State financial system, he was making 10 to 20 times what 
any local person in the same or similar position would make. He was very well paid. 
The Petitioner re-submitted the above-referenced letter from confirming 
the financial terms of service for his posting in~ ___ ___.and the private school tuition invoice 
from 2014. On appeal, counsel repeats the same passage from his letter in response to the RFE, already 
quoted above. The appeal does not otherwise address this criterion. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to provide appropriate evidence in support of this criterion and we agree 
with the Director's determination that the evidence submitted here did not meet that burden. In order 
to establish that they have commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration, a 
petitioner should provide documentary evidence of their actual earnings. The undated letter setting 
forth the Petitioner's terms of payment from the I O , I does not adequately 
document the Petitioner's salary and other remuneration earned during his period of employment in 
Russia. 
In addition, while the Petitioner provided data regarding "average Russian NGO salaries" from 
SimplyHired, the publisher of this data acknowledges that such salaries "can vary greatly" and does 
not provide information regarding high salaries in the field as a point of comparison. It is not sufficient 
for the Petitioner to provide evidence that his salary was "above average." Although we acknowledge 
counsel's repeated assertion that the Petitioner earned "10 to 20 times what any local person ... would 
make" we note that the assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. at 
534 n.2 (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
Therefore, even if the Petitioner had adequately documented his total earnings from 2014 or 2015, 
additional comparative data would be needed to establish that he commanded a high salary or 
significantly high total remuneration. 
As noted, the Petitioner also documented his earnings in the United States for 2017, but he has neither 
claimed nor submitted comparative salary data to establish that he commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in that year. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15898883 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a multimedia artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification . The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he seeks to 
enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an engineer and multimedia artist, is the Jroducer/creator of an on line animated video 
series titled I , which can be viewed on his I I I I lnstagram TV and YouTube channels. The record reflects that the Petitioner has a 
bachelor's degree in telecommunications engineering from a I I 1miversity and was 
employed by a U.S. engineering firm at the time he filed the petition. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
I (iii), Published materials in major media; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original artistic contributions of major significance; and 
I (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits a short statement asserting that the previously submitted evidence was 
"underestimated" and that he believes he satisfies at least three of the previously claimed criteria. He 
specifically addresses the awards, published materials, original contributions, and display criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(i), (iii), (v) and (vii), respectively. With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the record reflects that the Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding 
to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) and, on appeal, he does not contest the Director's 
2 
determination that he did not meet the criterion. Therefore, we consider that issue to be waived and 
will not further address it.1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established, as 
required, that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has been the recipient of awards 
or prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The record reflects the Petitioner's receipt of the following awards: 
I 2016 "Producer and Creator of Animated Videos of the Year" -
I 2019 Animated Video Producer of the Year -
I 2019 Animated Videos Producer with International Prominence -granted by .... I ___ _, 
I 2020 Animated Videos Producer with International Prominence -granted bY,_I __ ___. 
The Director concluded that the awarding entities mentioned above grant awards to celebrities across 
many fields (including sports, arts, political, social and entrepreneurial fields) and are "not specific to 
the Petitioner's field." The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the 
awards "were recognized beyond the context where these specific certificates were presented." 
Upon review, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on 
his receipt of the I awards in 2019 and 2020. The fact that the awards are issued across 
various artistic and entertainment fields does not disqualify them from meeting this criterion, as it is 
evident that the specific recognition th~ Petitioner received was for work in his field. Further, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence from both~--~ and international media reflecting recognition of 
these awards beyond the context of the awards ceremony itself. This evidence included an article from I I publicationl I that includes a photograph of the Petitioner with his award trophy 
1 See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 
n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol i cymanu al/HTML/Pol icyM anual. htm I. 
3 
from the 202d I Florida award ceremony, and evidence that other winners of th~ 0 
LJawards have received media recognition associated with their awards. Accordingly, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several print and online articles in support 
of this criterion but determined that none of the published materials satisfied all requirements set forth 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director determined that some of the articles did not feature the 
Petitioner as the subject of the story and the evidence did not indicate that the articles were published 
in major media or other qualifying publications. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he provided 
evidence that he and his work have been recognized by "important digital media." 
The Petitioner submitted articles about him and relating to his work as the creator of I I I I which were published by madmimi.com, panorama.com.ve, gentedehoy.com and the print 
publication I I We agree with the Director's determination that the record does not 
include evidence demonstrating that these are professional or major trade publications or other major 
media.3 
The Petitioner's evidence also includes an online article titled I I pub I ished by I I media outlet======-=.-T-he-art_i_cl_e-is_a_n_i_n-te-rv-ie_w_w-it_Jh 
the Petitioner about his background and his popular animated video channel, it identifies the author, 
and it includes the require title and date of publication and English translation. Further, the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence of I I media rankings to establish thatl I qualifies as 
a major medium. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on this 
evidence. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, art1st1c, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The 
Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, which included sixteen 
letters of reference and screenshots from the Petitioner's lnstagram profile, supports that he has made 
original contributions, but did not demonstrate the major significance of those contributions in his 
field. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
I wanted to clarify that several letters were sent from professors and political activists 
explaining the petitioner's contribution, and the officer concluded that they are not 
related to the petitioner's field, I wanted to clarify that the content of the animated 
videos is political and socio-economic and is in that context where his great 
contribution is, that is why this method of expanding the message is where the 
contribution lies and it seems that the officer did not interpret it that way. 
In a letter in support of the petition, the Petitioner emphasized that his work "has made an impression 
on distinguished individuals in both academic and broadcasting communities in I I its 
international diaspora and populations across the Western Hemisphere." He explained that he "has 
written, produced and published consistent cartoons and other media that are culturally and politically 
aware of the realities inl I and wider Latin American life," and that are "significant for their 
dark humor and powerful messages as well as their bold ... critique of thel I I t The Petitioner noted that he had achieved "a significant following on social media of 
over 65,000 followers on his page '---------~ 
The submitted reference letters recognize the originality of the Petitioner's work but do not explain 
the remarkable influence or impact of this work in his field.4 .___ ______ __., al I 
broadcaster, comedian, and author, recognizes the Petitioner's "talent and special ability" as well as 
his "courage by showing the current political reality I I in a satiric way." He also states 
that the Petitioner has made an "artistic contribution tol I society, showing the truth in a 
different and very original style." I lstates that the Petitioner's animated videos 
"show not only in country's political arena but also the social phenomena of immigration and the 
difficulties that brings to people to adapt to new cultures." He further notes that the Petitioner's work 
"generates such an influence that inspired me and my production team to compose a song for his 
show on lnstagram TV" which is copyrighted and available on major music platforms. He concludes 
that the Petitioner "has made a very significant contribution in the areas of politics, humor and 
animated videos." 
.___ ______ __.btates in his letter that he appreciates "the production quality" of the Petitioner's 
work and "his talent to make these animated videos that cover in depth political and social issues of 
our times in a very original way." He notes that the Petitioner "contributed greatly not only to the 
arts but also to humor, with his style to make these animated videos in the socio-political arena, 
showing the current social issues in a sarcastic way that has never been seen before." A letter from 
broadcaster and voice actor.___ ______ __.similarly praises the professional production value 
of the Petitioner's work. He states that the Petitioner is "creating new ways to divulge a political 
message thanks to his extraordinary ability to make these animated videos," and states that the 
Petitioner has made "a great contribution" to the arts as well as through his ability to "deliver a 
humorous political message in this difficult era tori ~ Graphic artist and illustrator I ]states that the Petitioner's video series "is a new way of protesting and spreading the 
message of repressedl ~ and "must be counted as a contribution to both the world of 
4 While we address only some of the 16 letters provided, we have reviewed and considering each one in evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
5 
animation and the global defense of freedom." While the submitted letters from professionals in the 
broadcast and media fields praise the production quality of the Petitioner's animated video series and 
the Petitioner's novel approach to the expression of social and political commentary, they do not 
explain with specificity how his work has been influential or impactful in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided reference letters from university professors who address the political, 
social, and cultural elements of his work. I I states that she has analyzed the 
content of the Petitioner's videos and praises "the courage of this young man who takes the sad and 
touching reality of the social and political eventsl las an inspiration, ... regardless of the 
consequences." She asserts that the Petitioner's artistic contribution "could be of extreme use for the 
free and democratic expression of a country that recognizes, respects and values human talent." D I I notes the difficulty of keeping students and the general public engaged in political, 
economic and sociocultural topics. He praises the Petitioner for his "unique" method of cultural 
expression and states that his "contribution is of outmost significance because he introduces his 
viewers to the graphic language significative elements of the Latin American culture and 
idiosyncrasy." ~-----~ states that the Petitioner has created "a new form of Artistic 
Peaceful Protest," and praises him for "adapting and finding new methods to allowl Ito 
be informed and heard." He further states that the Petitioner's "unique approach to the spread of 
freedom of expression is of great significance" and that he has made a "contribution tol I 
and the world at large." 
The letters discussed above, and other letters submitted in support of this criterion, do not contain 
detailed, probative information that explain how the Petitioner's original contributions have already 
had an impact of major significance in the field. While they praise his artistic talents and original 
approach to socio-political messaging, the influence and significance of the Petitioner's contributions 
are explained in very general terms or described in terms of their potential to guide or influence the 
work of others in the future. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are 
of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
The Petitioner also points to media coverage of his work, his awards, and his lnstagram following as 
evidence that is relevant to this criterion. The Petitioner's awards and published material about him 
have been considered under the appropriate criteria in the analysis above. The record does not 
sufficiently establish the link between that evidence and the significance of any original contributions 
he has made to the field of video animation or to the social and political discourse in his home country. 
The media articles reflect that he has garnered some recognition based on both the popularity and 
subject matter of his video series, they do not demonstrate the major significance of his contributions 
to the field. Further, although the Petitioner has received awards as a video and animation producer, 
the record does not reflect that such awards are granted based on a recipient's original contributions 
of major significance in a given field. Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner indicates that his 
following on lnstagram is indicative of the significance of his contributions, but he does not provide 
any comparative evidence or information that supports that claim. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
6 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner has made contributions of major significance in his field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his presentation at a February 2020 
conference hosted b in Ohio. He provided a letter froml I 
Chief O eratin Officer of who states that the Petitioner "gave the lecture 
L-------....------,--------,...J' during which he "showcased his animated videos about the 
practical, daily lives in America." I !explained thaU 7 
"created this major conference to bridge the newly exposed consumer gap between thel ~ 
communities and current businesses interacting with the Hispanic and Latino peoples in Ohio." She 
described the conference attendees as representatives ofl O I companies, as well as 
members of the local Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and local Hispanic entrepreneurs representing 
their establishments. The Petitioner did not provide any other documentation related to the 
conference, such as promotional materials, a conference program, or additional evidence related to 
his own presentation. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that it was not clear that his lecture 
and presentation at this conference, as described inl Is letter, satisfies the plain language 
of this criterion. The Director advised the Petitioner that he could submit additional evidence, such 
as materials created to promote and publicize the exhibition or showcase of his work, and/or evidence 
that the venue where his work was displayed was an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
Although the Petitioner submitted a timely response to the RFE, his response did not include any 
additional evidence related to this criterion, nor did he address the criterion in the accompanying 
support letter. Accordingly, the Director concluded that he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner appears to address this criterion in his statement on appeal. He states that he "gave a 
conference" and asserts that "the officer did not take it into account, even alleging arguments that are 
not in accordance with what the law establishes." However, as noted, both the RFE and the denial 
decision reflect that the Director considered the initial evidence related to the~----~ 
conference but found it insufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The 
Petitioner has not articulated why he believes the Director's determination was "not in accordance" 
with the applicable regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with the Director's 
determination that additional evidence would be needed to demonstrate that the Petitioner's lecture 
at this conference qualifies as an artistic exhibition or showcase of his work and therefore conclude 
that he did not meet this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
As explained above, we conclude that the Petitioner satisfies only two criteria, related to awards and 
published materials. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). As such, the Petitioner cannot satisfy the 
7 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is not eligible for 
this classification. Because the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal, we decline to 
reach and hereby reserve the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
that he is coming to the United States to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" as 
required under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. 7 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record reflects that the Petitioner has recently 
earned some recognition for his online video series, but such recognition does not rise to the level of 
sustained national or international acclaim in the multimedia or video animation field. In fact, in his 
statement in support of the appeal, he emphasizes that "[i]t is important to clarify that the petitioner 
is not in the top of the field but he is unique in his field." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach.) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15820657 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mus1c1an, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner a percussionist, describes himself as "one of I I Latin America's most 
respected musicians." Early in his career, he was a founding member of thel I band I I 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has accompanied various Latin American artists in the recording 
studio and in live performances. He highlights his work on two albums b that 
were nominated for Latin Grammy Awards in the Album" category and his 
role as the lead percussionist and band coordinator for singer.___ _____ ____. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can meet five of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
I (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iii), Published materials in major media; 
I (iv), Judging the work of others in the same field or an allied field; 
I (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
I (vii), Leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these evidentiary criteria, relating to judging 
the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display of his work at artistic showcases or 
exhibitions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner has served as a 
member of the judging panel in three music competitions and has performed live au I 
festivals as a founding member ofl I Accordingly, the evidence supports the Director's 
conclusion that he has satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he established by a preponderance of the evidence that he meets 
the three remaining claimed criteria and is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude, for the reasons discussed below, 
that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner provided evidence that he is a voting member of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts 
and Sciences (LARAS), as well as a copy of the LARAS membership application, information regarding 
membership from the LARAS website, and excerpts from the bylaws of the National Academy of 
Recording Arts & Sciences, Inc. 
The information from the LARAS website states that the "voting member" classification is for "creative 
or technical professionals" involved in recording music. Prospective voting members are required to 
provide evidence of at least six credits (songs), supported by verifiable documentation of release within 
the last five years. There is also a requirement that at least 51% of the recordings are in the Spanish or 
Portuguese language. Applicants are encouraged to "send in as much information as possible" including 
their biographies and any media about them, and LARAS "reserves the Right of Admission and approves 
membership according to the evaluation of the materials submitted." We note that the Petitioner did not 
submit the portion of the organization's bylaws that addresses membership types, the application for 
membership, or the academy's processes or standards for granting voting membership. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that LARAS requires outstanding 
achievements as an essential condition for membership, or that the association relies on recognized 
national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership. The Petitioner 
argues that voting membership is the highest level of membership in LARAS, that voting members must 
meet "stringent requirements," and that "common activity in the music industry alone does not bestow 
voting membership." He also emphasizes on appeal that LARAS is an internationally recognized 
organization with a distinguished reputation, and that its bylaws establish that some of the most senior 
trustees of the academy serve on its membership committee. 
While the record reflects that prospective voting members of LARAS must meet a minimum threshold 
of six verifiable song credits within a five year period, the evidence submitted does not support a 
conclusion that this level of professional activity in the recording industry is intrinsically an "outstanding 
achievement" or that LARAS views it in this light. Further, while the submitted excerpts from the 
academy's bylaws indicate that high-ranking trustees of the recording academy serve on the membership 
committee, the full composition of that committee is not described in the record. Finally, as noted, the 
Petitioner did not submit all relevant portions of the academy's bylaws, including those portions that 
address membership requirements and the membership application review process. While it appears that 
there is a discretionary component to granting voting membership, the record does not support a 
3 
conclusion that only those individuals who provide evidence of "outstanding achievements" above and 
beyond the six required song credits are eligible for such membership. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that voting membership in LARAS requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included copies of four print articles from thel I newspapers 
El Tiempo and El Norte. All four articles are about the Petitioner and relate to his work as a musician and 
three of them include the required title, date, and author of the material.1 
The Petitioner initially claimed that both newspapers qualify as major media inl I He submitted 
a "Media Factsheet Detail" published by NewBase, which identifies El Tiempo as an "eastern regional 
newspaper! I ... with local and national news" and indicates that it changed from a daily to a 
weekly circulation in 2018. The same document indicates that the newspaper has a daily (Monday­
Saturday) circulation of 75,000 copies based on "unaudited figures." With respect to El Norte, the 
supporting evidence included an excerpt from the publication's media kit indicating an "ordinary print 
run" of 122,135 copies. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that additional 
evidence would be required to demonstrate that either newspaper is a qualifying major media publication. 
In a letter submitted in response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that his work "has received significant 
national and international media coverage" and that his performances "have been discussed at length and 
lauded by major music magazines." However, he did not submit additional evidence showing that he and 
his work has been covered by major music magazines or international media. The only article he 
specifically addressed in the response letter is the article from El Tiempo, which was accompanied by the 
same "Media Factsheet Detail" obtained from NewBase.2 The Petitioner also submitted a website traffic 
overview for El Tiempo (eltiempo.com.ve) from SimilarWeb, indicating that it has a country ranking of 
667 inl land a ranking of 13,214 in the "news and media" category. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that El Tiempo is a 
major media publication or other qualifying publication. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided past unaudited circulation figures for the newspaper from NewBase but 
determined that this evidence was not probative, noting that he did not provide a basis for comparison 
of those figures to other publications. 
1 The fourth article, which was published in the May 17, 2013 edition of El Norte, does not include a byline identifying 
the author. 
2 The record reflects that, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner re-submitted the articles from El Norte in support of the 
leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but he did not pursue his initial claim that these articles 
satisfied the published materials criterion, nor does he do so on appeal. Based on the initial evidence submitted, we 
conclude that he did not establish that El Norte qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that NewBase is "an independent media company associated with 
Publicitas Media," and provides additional background information from the websites of these 
companies in support of his claim that "the readership/circulation figures for El Tiempo" are from "an 
objective, independent and credible source." He also claims that he has submitted articles from "trade 
journals" in the music industry, but as noted, the evidence submitted in support of this criterion was 
solely from the newspapers El Tiempo and El Norte. 
The Petitioner does not address the primary deficiency observed by the Director, which is the lack of 
evidence comparing the circulation figures of these publications to those of other similar publications. 
With respect to the probative value of the unaudited daily circulation figures provided by NewBase, 
we note that the "Media Factsheet Detail" included daily figures for a newspaper that was being 
published on a weekly basis at the time NewBase issued its factsheet. In addition to observing this 
apparent discrepancy, we agree with the Director that the newspaper circulation figures alone are 
insufficient to establish that a given publication qualifies as major media in its market.3 Here, the 
information from NewBase also identifies El Tiempo as a "regional newspaper" and comparative 
rankings or circulation data would be needed to establish that it can be classified as major media in 
I I 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on services he has provided to music groups 
and other music industry organizations that have a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 4 
On appeal, the Petitioner specifically emphasizes the services he has provided to singers! I I andl I as a member of their studio and tourin bands, his,_r_o-le_a_s_a__,n 
artist endorser for percussion instrument manufacturer and in-ear monitor 
manufacturer.__ ____ _. and his role as a founding member of the band .__ _ ____. 
First, he addresses his role as "a Musician for the,__ _____________ ____,.' noting 
that the leading or critical nature of this role "is documented with the receipt of two Latin Grammy 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
nominations for his role in two separate music products with~------~' The Petitioner 
maintains that if his role was not leading or critical, he would not have received these Latin Grammy 
nominations. 
As noted, the Petitioner performed on two albums by I I that were nominated for Latin Grammy 
Awards in thel !Album" category. Translated certificates from LARAS show 
the Petitioner's name "in recognition of his participation as a musician" on the nominated recordings. 
Album credits for one of the nominated albums indicate that the Petitioner played "minor percussion and 
Congas inl I" Acknowledgment of his participation as a musician on a nominated album does 
not lead to a conclusion that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, nor has he established 
that either the albums orl I a singer-songwriter, qualify as an "organization or establishment." 
The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner has performed withl I as a member of his 
touring band, but overall, the evidence related to his services tol I does not establish how his role 
as one of the singer's percussionists is a leading role or one that is critical to the outcome of the singer's 
activities. 
The Petitioner also claims that he has served in "a lead/critical role" for music ~------...,.....r....:..:..==:.=, 
organization," stating that as one of the singer's "main musicians" he "has been instrumental to.__ _ ____. I ~ in both recorded productions and I ive concerts." Initially, he pointed to the published materials 
about him in the record, noting that all four of the submitted articles from El Tiempo and El Norte mention 
his role as percussionist and/or band coordinator forL I a Puerto Rican salsa singer. He also 
submitted a 2016 Billboard magazine article about] f s record-setting success on the I !Albums chart as evidence of his reputation in the industry. 
Subsequently, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a letter from .... l ____ ____, 
who describes the Petitioner as "a fundamental piece in my artistic career since 2009, as coordinator of 
my orchestra in I I and as a principal percussionist in the presentations of my orchestra in 
I I' He also discusses the Petitioner's role as coordinator for a 20101 I tour, and notes 
that, in subsequent years, he has worked "in different concerts both inl land internationally." 
He describes the Petitioner as "the professional responsible for all the work of coordination, conducting 
of rehearsals and musical performance as percussionist inl I and other countries." I I c=J concludes by stating that the Petitioner "has been a key figure in my organization for almost a 
decade." 
The record establishes thatl I enjoys a distinguished reputation as a recording artist. 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the singer's touring band or orchestra is an "organization or 
establishment." Further, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner, as a band coordinator and 
percussionist for certain live performances and tours, has been critical to the outcome of I ts 
touring activities or overall success. The record does not contain, for example, articles aboutl I 
c=Jthat mention his band members generally or the Petitioner specifically. While! ts 
letter establishes that the Petitioner contributed to the concerts in which he participated, tickets for those 
concerts appear to have sold on the strength of the singer's existing reputation, rather than on the 
Petitioner's role in coordinating the band's preparation for the performances and his services as a 
percussionist. 
6 
As noted, the Petitioner also submits evidence relating to his endorsement agreements with two 
manufacturers of musical instruments and equipment. Under the terms of his agreement with percussion 
instrument manufacturer! ~ the company agreed to assist the Petitioner with his 
instrument needs by providing significant discounts on its products, to promote him as al ~ndorser 
and artist on its website and social media, and to provide him with an artist pass at trade shows where it 
exhibits its products. The Petitioner, in turn, agreed to us~ !products, to promotel , I on his 
website and social media accounts, and to keeij I updated on his career and performance schedule. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's biography appears onl Is website and includes evidence 
that he attended the 2018 National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM) show as an "Exhibitor 
Artist" for~-----~ The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml ts Artist Relations 
Manager, who confirms the company's relationship with him. The company representative does not, 
however, explain how being a 'I I" involves the Petitioner's performance in a role that is 
leading or critical to the organization. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter confirming that he is a participant in I Is Artist 
Endorsement Program. As a participant, he receives discounted customized! I discounts 
on the company's other products, and dedicated support and repair service. He agreed to credit or mention 
I I whenever possible and to tag the company on social media, to provide two photographs of 
himself I r, to provide two quotes about the products, and to grantl lthe 
permission to use his name, quotes and likeness in its promotional materials. The Petitioner's name 
appears alongside more than 700 other groups and musicians on thel !website's "Artist Page" and 
he emphasizes the company's distinguished reputation and the fact that many of the listed artists are well 
known figures in the music industry. However, the record does not support his claim that participation 
inl Is artist endorsement program involves serving in a leading or critical role for the company, 
nor has he established that he has personally contributed in a way that is of significant importance to 
the outcome of the organization's activities. 
Finally, the Petitioner has provided evidence relating to his role in thel lensemblel I We 
find sufficient evidence in the record to establish that he held a critical role in the group as one of the 
founding members who helped shape its sound. However, the Petitioner has not established thatl I 
enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner states that the group's productions and performances have been covered by major media 
publications that "praised the group's unique style and discussed its success in the field." He also 
emphasizes that the group "embarked on several national tours aroundl I" and [erformed at the 
"most prestigious venues." Finally, he claims that one of the co-founders o~ I I, is 
"one of the most accomplished musicians in I I noting that he later worked on a Grammy 
nominated album byl I 
Most of the information regarding the group's tourin~ and recording activities, and its related critical and 
commercial achievements, is provided in a letter froni I The record corroborates the information 
he provides aboutl Is performances atl !festivals inl land, as noted, we 
determined that these activities satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating to the display 
of the Petitioner's work at artistic showcases. 
7 
,___ _ _____.I states that the band's first album.I I achieved a gold record based on 5000 
units sold in was distributed in several countries, and had five songs receive strong radio play 
in .___ __ _.and internationally. However, his statements regarding the band's sales and radio play are 
not supported by other evidence in the record. The Petitioner has submitted some promotional materials 
and media articles that promoted the band's early festival performances, but in some cases has not 
provided copies of the articles from their original source. Accordingly, there is insufficient evidence to 
establish that the band received major media attention. 
The term "distinguished" necessarily implies a comparison. However, the record does not contain 
evidence that would allow a comparison betweerl Is critical or commercial achievements relative 
to similar artists. The Petitioner has not established, for instance, that the level or type of media coverage 
it received set the band apart from other artists in its genre, nor documented that it achieved significant 
sales or critical acclaim. Overall, the record does not contain sufficient supporting documentation to 
show tha~ lhas a distinguished reputation, marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence.5 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
V. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
8 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, while the 
Petitioner has worked with acclaimed artists, he has not shown that he himself has earned the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or established a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record reflects that the Petitioner enjoys a successful career as a respected professional 
musician and has earned various forms of recognition in his industry. However, the evidence does not 
support a determination he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13495683 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the chief executive officer of a robotics company, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering at Universit in 2017. Durin his 
graduate studies, he performed research in the university's.___ __________ ~ _ __._, 
I I. He is now employed as the chief executive officer and co-founder of I lwhich is headquartered inL I with offices in China. .___ _ _. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has claimed to meet up to six of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
I (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one criterion, related to his authorship of scholarly articles 
in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record supports the Director's 
determination, as it contains evidence that the Petitioner has co-authored articles published in scientific 
journals and conference proceedings, including International Journal of Robotics Research, Science 
Robotics, and IEEE Transactions on Robotics. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets up to 
four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
2 
Petitioner meets two additional criteria, discussed below, and therefore satisfies the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification.1 
As it relates to the leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 h)(3)(viii), the Director 
determined that the Petitioner erforms in a uali in role fo However, the Director 
observed that.__ ______________ ~ noting that "the Ell visa classification 
is intended for 'that small percentage who have risen [not will rise] to the very top of the field of 
endeavor."' On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director applied an improper standard by 
considering the longevity of the organization in evaluating whether it has a distinguished reputation, 
stating that such an analysis is contrary to USCIS guidance on this criterion. 2 We agree, and further 
emphasize that a determination of whether an individual's leading or critical role reflects their 
placement among those at the very top of the field is one which is appropriate in the final merits 
determination; it is not required by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Upon de novo 
review, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence in the form of industry and media 
recognition to establish thatl lenjoys a distinguished reputation notwithstanding its 
relatively early stage of development. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of an individual's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. We 
agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director did not give sufficient weight to expert 
opinion letters in the record. 
For example.__ _____ ____. Director otl ts1---_~ex'-'=-',lains that the Petitioner's "major 
contribution to the field is to the development of a m h I f r robots that 
significantly improves a robot's capability of performingl_ _________ --t"=LJ....11:.,U....U-'-'-i 
dangerous for humanl I He describes how the Petitioner's advancements in robotic 
have been incorporated into (lj I robot designed by NASA's Jet Propulsion~L_a_b_o-ra-to-ry~ 
(JPL) fo~ !exploration; (2) the,___-~-~-.---..,.....,...... robot developed byl I and 
Google to~ l exploration; and (3) an ongoing project with NASA which involves usingl I I I to objects in space . 
.___ ___ ___,..-----'-'D"'-',irector ofl l·s I I further discusses the Petitioner's ~--=--=---------:---:-:---=!......_-~ work on the ro·ect in which the lab cr:~.ted "a I I avatar that can perform 
complicated.___ ______ ~ tasks atl,___ __ ,..........J 
[The Petitioner] developed a full set of methodologies that delive;:.;.r-=-ed=-==I =====;'I 
,___ ___ ____.I in complex environments including underactuated ~I ----~I 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We therefore consider the Petitioner to have waived that criterion. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 
l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, 
that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States 
v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10-11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is not in and of itself a determining factor in evaluating whether it has a distinguished reputation). 
3 
improvement inl I, I I and learning, and contributed to development of I I software for I I These research 
results have had a significant impact on the robotics field and brought him numerous 
publications in ... the rp inteTational journal and conferences in robotics and marked 
him as an expert in the of robots inl !environments. 
The record shows that some of the Petitioner's published papers associated with these projects 
received coverage in science and mainstream publications, and researchers at other laboratories attest 
to the importance of the Petitioner's innovations in robotic For exam le, 
discusses the Petitioner's develo ment of a' 
deeming it "a 
1---,-,..,...,....--' powerful tool that accelerates robot development for better~---~ability in complicated 
conditions" and noting that it has been used by many other top university labs in the field. Overall, 
the letters provide sufficient detail, and are supported by sufficient supporting evidence, to establish 
the nature and significance of the Petitioner's contributions to several projects atl I Based on 
this evidence, we conclude that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence, including evidence submitted in support of the remaining claimed criteria, in the context 
of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b){l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner received his bachelor's degree in mechanical 
engineering froml I University in 2012 and his master's degree and Ph.D. from I I 
University in 2014 and 2017, respectively. The record reflects thatl lwas co-founded 
by the Petitioner and along with some of his fellow! !alumni in 2016 or 2017, and that the 
Petitioner currently serves as its CEO.4 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 The record contains! l·s offer letter to the Petitioner (dated September 2017) iodirting that he was 
hired for the position of~----~· The Petitioner's offer letter was signed by] in his capacity as 
CEO. However, more recent evidence, including press releases and contracts, consistently identifies the Petitioner as the 
company's CEO and legal representative. 
4 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles, made original contributions through 
his graduate research a~ I and currently leads a robotics company that has earned a distinguished 
reputation among startups in its industry. We have also considered evidence related to recognition of 
the Petitioner's research and business-related endeavors in the form of media coverage and awards. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to his scholarly work, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that publication of articles "is not 
an easy task" and that "not every academic or researcher succeeds in publishing in peer-reviewed 
professional journals recognized as key to their particular field of study or research." While we do 
not disagree with this assertion, we emphasize that publication of research does not automatically 
place a scientist at the top of the field. 5 Here, the Petitioner demonstrated that he had authored 
approximately 20 articles published in scientific journals and conference proceedings at the time of 
filing. We acknowledge thatl I a fellowl I graduate who collaborated with the 
Petitioner on research projects atl I, states that the Petitioner has pub I ished "an exceptional 
number" of articles "for someone his age." The Petitioner has not established, however, that the number 
of articles he published over the last five years is indicative of achieving national or international acclaim 
in his field, which includes scientists in the robotics field and not only those who have received their 
doctorate degrees within the last several years. Nor has he otherwise provided evidence that would 
meaningfully distinguish his publication record from that of others in the field. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of researchers, the citation history or other 
evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. While 
the record includes evidence of citations to his research, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these 
citations represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of 
his field.6 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner does not provide evidence demonstrating that 
these rates of citation are indicative of a high level of recognition in the field. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not compare his citation statistics to others in his field of endeavor who are recognized 
as already being at the top in the field. Nor has the Petitioner otherwise demonstrated that his 
published work, individually or collectively, has garnered attention at a level indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, to the Petitioner's citation history, we have considered evidence that several of the research 
projects in which he was involved at I I were reported on in scientific and mainstream 
publications, including IEEE Spectrum, ScienceNews, and Wired. As noted, the Petitioner submitted 
testimonial evidence establishing his contributions tol l's high-profile endeavors related to the 
design of robots for I !exploration. The media recognition sufficiently demonstrates 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 13 (noting that, as part of a multi-part analysis an individual's 
publications should be evaluated to determine whether they are indicative of the petitioner being one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor). 
6 The Petitioner's initial evidence included his Google Scholar profile, which indicated that his published work had 
cumulatively received 168 citations as of April 2019. He provided an updated profile in response to the Director's RFE 
which reflects 280 total citations as of May 2020. Continued citation of the Petitioner's work after the filing date speaks 
to the significance of that work, which we have granted, above; but it cannot retroactively establish eligibility at the time 
of filing. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). 
5 
that the projects were considered to involve important advances within the robotics field and wider 
scientific community. 
However, the media coverage of these projects does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national 
or international acclaim based on his contributions. For example, articles published b ScienceNews 
and Wired re ardin the Petitioner's co-authored Science Robotics article 
L..,_ ___________________ __,.-----,..,..-------'-...:..co=n_;_;t;.:,;,;:.:,ain quotes 
from several other members of the research team, including.___ ___ .,....~-----~ andD I I, al I graduate student identified as the lead author of the paper. Although the 
PetItIoner's key contributions to this successful project are documented in the record and we 
recognized the significance of those contributions above, the media re arts do not single him out or 
acknowledge him other than listing him among "additional co-authors" of the paper 
discussed. The submitted media covera e of other ro·ects undertaken at is com arable. An 
IEEE Spectrum article titled L------r----l---------------_J I I" describes the origins of th project, the challenges it overcame, and its 
success, and it includes quotes from.___ __ ~and others, but it does not mention the Petitioner. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner was deeply involved in important robotics research during his graduate 
studies atl I the record, in the aggregate, indicates that the resulting acclaim for that work 
resides predominantly with thel land its permanent senior researchers, rather than specifically 
with the Petitioner. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner received some individual reco nition durin his time at 
by co-authoring a paper that received a Best P,--"a=-"-'er'-'A'---'-'-'w""'a"""rd"--=-o"""n ________ --.--____ __, 
at the 2016 IEEE International Conference on.___ ___________ ___. held in Korea. 
However, the Petitioner submitted little information regarding this award beyond providing the award 
certificate itself, and a brief description of the purpose of the award. We recognize the Petitioner's 
claim that IEEE is internationally recognized organization, but the overall reputation of the 
organization does not provide sufficient basis for us to conclude that any award bestowed at any of its 
conferences is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. The submitted 
evidence reflects that award winners and finalists for all awards given at the conference were listed on 
the conference website at iros2016.org/awards.html, but the record does not contain evidence of any 
other recognition associated with the award outside of the conference itself. The Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that he has been the recipient of other awards or that his receipt of this award at the 
IEEEI Fonference resulted in his national or international acclaim or placed him among that small 
percentage of robotics researchers at the very top of the field. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's role as CEO withl I and its 
resulting impact on his standing in the field. The evidence shows that the company had received 
sufficient media and industry recognition at the time of filing to establish its reputation as one of the 
most I I in its industry. 7 The Petitioner placed significant emphasis on the fact that 
Robotics Business Review a ma·or trade ublication, wrote aboutl I in its 2019 issue 
featuring the However, it was not listed among the Top 50, but rather 
was named by the publisher as.___ ____________ ___,' which includes companies 
7 The evidence reflects that~xhibited its prototype trials for the first time in April 2019, approximately six months 
prior to the filing of the petition, and was still ramping up staffing and mass production capabilities at the time of filing. 
6 
that 
The article's description o_.__ _ __,--escribes its 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that Robotics Biz 
(robitcsbiz.org),,-!-n~a.u.m.!..!<ec.l:!.d.1=;---- ..... among its .....,...-~r------.---------'-i_n_, 
an article dated 2019. That article credits with creatin 
and notes that the 
company was founded 'L--------------------------r----,.J 
While the record contains evidence that the Petitioner is listed as co-inventor on many of __ -s 
patent applications, neither article mentions the Petitioner and we cannot conclude that this recent 
industry recognition of the company's innovative product has garnered him individual recognition that 
rises to the level of national or international acclaim. 
The evidence also establishes that, in 2019, various media outlets have either re-published ..... I_...., I I press releases or pub I ished articles reporting on those press releases. The first press release 
marked the Petitioner's launch ofl , ~ ,I at the annual I I I I trade fair inl , 12019. The press release and related articles identify the Petitioner as the 
company's co-founder and CEO and contain a brief quote from him regarding the I l's 
capabilities, but they are not about him. The second ress release and related articles, ublished in I 12019, markl l's release of 
Is more recent press 
release and related articles do not mention the Petitioner. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the media coverage ofl I reflects the Beneficiary's status as an individual who has 
garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation ." See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence that I ~ has been the recipient of several 
industry awards, including the0Robot Award, thel Award, and the I I 
Award. Of these three awards, only thQ Robot Award was bestowed prior to the filing of this 
petition. With respect to the0Robot Award, we note that the award certificate is written in both 
En~lish and Chinese and is not accompanied by a full English translation.8 The Petitioner indicates 
tha I is the recipient, but the portion of the certificate identifying the recipient has not 
been translated. Further, the record contains insufficient evidence regarding this award to support a 
finding that it is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. For example, the 
record does not contain an: additional information regarding the award or the awarding entity (the 
I J, any media coverage related to the award, or any other relevant 
evidence of the national or international significance of the award in the Petitioner's field. Therefore, 
even if we determined that the Petitioner could be considered the award recipient, we could not 
conclude thatl Is receipt of the award reflects he is among the sm;II perc1ntage of individuals at 
the very top of his field. The two remaining awards were received b in 2020 and indicative 
of the company's growing industry recognition and reputation in the field, but do not support a finding 
that the Petitioner enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim as of the date of filing in 2019. 
8 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate and certify that they are 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
7 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, most of the evidence related to the 
Petitioner's achievements dates from 2016 to 2019 and does not establish that his achievements to 
date, individual or collectively, have earned him a place among those at the very top of the field. While 
we acknowledge that an individual who is still early in their professional career may be able to 
demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim, the evidence here does not establish that the 
Petitioner had reached that level when he filed the petition. For the reasons discussed we find the 
record insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15782327 
Motion On Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, agreeing 
with the Director that the Petitioner had not satisfied at least three initial criteria. We reserved the 
issue of substantial prospective benefit. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will grant the motion in part, but the appeal 
will remain dismissed. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a._l ___ __.I painter who trained in his native .... 1 ---~I before relocating to the 
United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
2 
The Director concluded, and we agreed, that the Petitioner meets criterion (vii), relating to display. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria numbered (i), (ii), and (ix). The 
Petitioner does not contest our conclusions regarding the criteria numbered (iii) and (viii), and 
therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 
The Petitioner submits relevant new evidence on motion, and therefore we grant the motion in part. 
For the reasons explained below, however, we will not approve the petition. Also, in addition to 
submitting new evidence, the Petitioner states that he "will also rely on evidence previously submitted 
in support of his petition," but the only purpose of a motion to reopen is to introduce new facts, along 
with supporting evidence. Therefore, while the motion includes frequent references to evidence 
submitted previously, revisiting such evidence does not fall within the compass of a motion to reopen. 
Allegations that the prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at that time would 
belong in a motion to reconsider, which the Petitioner has not filed. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his "honorable mention 
award" from an Oil Painters of America (OPA) Online Showcase is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. We noted that OP A's characterization of its own awards is not evidence 
of recognition beyond the awarding organization. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional materials about the award, but these materials are all from 
OPA (such as a letter congratulating the Petitioner on the "wonderful achievement" of "winning an 
Honorable Mention A ward"). Private correspondence from the awarding entity does not demonstrate 
national or international recognition of the Petitioner's honorable mention award. The Petitioner 
contends that it "do[ es] not make the slightest sense" for us to conclude that an "organization is 
prestigious but the awards it gives are not or suppose that OPA has awards of different qualities." But 
the regulation requires recognition of the awards themselves, which is not the same thing as the 
reputation of the awarding organization. Also, different awards from the same organization might not 
enjoy the same level of recognition. Therefore, evidence about higher-level prizes from OPA does 
not establish recognition of honorable mention awards. 
The Petitioner also won honorable mentions at two I I Art Contests. In our appellate 
decision, we acknowledged the reputation of the~-------------r-..-----., but concluded 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his honorable mentions are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in his field. On motion, the Petitioner disputes our conclusions but 
submits no new evidence to address this point directly. Instead, the Petitioner asserts: "Many 
recognized art competitions in the world allow open entries," and he submits the "Rules of the I I Art Prize" to support this point. The Petitioner does not claim to have won ~ I 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Art Prize, and he does not show that the rules for that competition are comparable or relevant to the 
contests in which he did participate. Any assertion of error in the prior decision would be within the 
scope of a motion to reconsider, rather than a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner also submits photographs from the award ceremony to show that the participants were 
adults, but we did not conclude otherwise. Rather, we noted that, according to an article that the 
Petitioner submitted, the contest was open to participants ars 15 and up. The Petitioner submits 
information about other individuals who won prizes at the I contests; the effect that 
political upheaval has had on thel I art communitr and other issues, but these materials do 
not show that an honorable mention at one ofl s contests is nationally or internationally 
recognized. The Petitioner acknowledges the lack of publicity accompanying his honorable mentions, 
but he states that press coverage is not "essential to prove that [he] obtained two honorable mentions." 
The point of such coverage is not to prove that the Petitioner won those mentions, but to show that 
they have attracted the attention that one would expect in relation to a widely recognized prize or 
award. 
The Petitioner has not established, on motion, that he received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner previously claimed to satisfy this criterion with evidence regarding the I I I I and the! I We determined that the Petitioner did not 
establish his membership in the LJ and that the Petitioner did not show that thel I has 
membership requirements that conform to the regulatory language. 
On mqtion the Petitioner submits a copy of an email message from thec=:=:J welcoming the Petitioner 
"as anl~_ ----~-~ --~~' The announcement is dated August 16, 2019, more than six weeks after 
the Petitioner filed the petition on July 2, 2019, and about five weeks after the Director issued a request 
for evidence on July 11, 2019. Therefore, this document cannot establish eligibility at the time of 
filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. J 103.rb)(l). The evidence is consistent with our prior conclusion that 
the Petitioner's participation in competitions in 2016 and 2017 was not evidence of membership. 
,...F-=u""-rt=h=e=rm=o=re"-'---"------.-~' is the lowest of three tiers of D membership (the others being 
'----------.----~a=n-=-.d I ~-A submitted printout from the c=:J,s website 
must show "competence and understanding," whereas a I I indicates that a 
I t must have I I' ~-------------~ 
We concluded that letters from the D's president were "not sufficiently detailed to establish that 
thd lrequires prospective members to demonstrate 'outstanding achievements' as a condition of 
admission." We noted that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence of the organization's 
membership requirements. 
4 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a printout from theO' s website, stating: "The first criteria [sic] 
is talent, regardless of the length of the CV, years of experience, awards and honors received .... All 
our academicians have been subject to a rigorous selection and selected for excellence in their work."2 
The Petitioner also submits a new letter from the president of thd I, who repeats assertions from 
his prior letters and states that jurors consider "pictorial techniques," "compositional ability," 
"inherent meaning" and "uniqueness" of submitted works. These are factors that relate to subjective 
evaluations of an artist's skills, but the Petitioner has not shown that they rise to the level of 
outstanding achievements. 
We previously observed that the Petitioner did not submitD documentation such as its bylaws or 
constitution. In the absence of documented, enforceable rules and definition of key terms, the 
submitted information is too vague to establish that I I membership meets the regulatory 
requirements. 
The Petitioner, on motion, has not established his membership in associations that meet the requirements 
specified in the regulations. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that letters from galleries indicate that the Petitioner's 
paintings command high prices, but we stated: "The Petitioner has documented the sales price for 
only two of his paintings." We concluded that the Petitioner did not "establish that he has commanded 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others." Furthermore, the Petitioner's documented sales 
were through galleries, but his arguments relied upon market reports that only deal with auctions, 
rather than gallery sales. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits printouts from the website of an online gallery, listing the prices for 
the Petitioner's work and other paintings of the same size, style, and media. These listings are for 
paintings that remain available for sale, and therefore they do not show the prices that buyers have 
actually paid for the Petitioner's work. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that this one 
gallery is representative of the field as a whole. 
The Petitioner also submits anc=J exhibition catalog from 2018. His work is not listed, but the 
Petitioner states that most of the prices in that catalog are lower than the prices for his work. As above, 
the Petitioner has not shown the prices in this catalog to be representative of the price range to be 
found in the field overall. 
The Petitioner submits invoices to show "the progressive increase in the value of his work since 2014." 
The invoices show that three of his paintings sold for $5000-$6000 each in 2014-2015, and five others 
sold for between $9010 and $11,200 in 2019-2020. Two of the invoices are dated after the petition's 
2 The use of the plural "criteria" instead of "criterion" is one of several grammatical and spelling errors in the web printout 
(such as "authot" instead of "author" and "justificative" instead of "justification"). 
5 
filing date. One invoice reflects a 20% discount from the asking price, which demonstrates that 
purchasers do not always pay the foll published price of an artwork. As a result, the foll prices listed 
on websites do not necessarily match the amounts that the Petitioner will eventually receive. 
The invoices are not sufficient to establish any definite trend in the prices of the Petitioner's work, 
partly because there are only a few of them, with a gap of several years between 2015 and 2019. Also, 
the recent invoices are mostly for much heavier (and, thus, presumably larger) works than the older 
mvmces. 
The Petitioner compares the prices his work commanded in 2014-2015 withl ~s "monthly 
minimum wage in the same month and year." The comparison is not instructive, because the 
regulations require remuneration to be significantly high in relation to others in the.field, rather than 
in relation to the local minimum wage or the population as a whole. 
Together, the invoices document $68,168 in sales over a span of five and a half years. The six invoices 
dated prior to the July 2019 filing date show an average price of $7643. The Petitioner has not 
established that these figures are significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner, on motion, has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
The remainder of the new evidence submitted on motion concerns the Petitioner's ongoing activity, 
intended to establish that he continues to work as an artist. Our appellate decision included no 
substantive conclusions in this regard, and therefore we need not discuss this evidence here. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's new evidence does not establish eligibility or overcome the grounds for dismissal of 
the appeal. The motion to reopen is granted in part and denied in part for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 16316660 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 5, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public prosecutor and law professor, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been a public prosecutor in the.__ ________ __. since 199 5 and teaches 
university and professional courses in criminal, constitutional and environmental law. He indicates 
that he intends to work as a legal consultant in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet seven of these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met only one of these seven criteria, relating to his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director either overlooked or did not give due weight to the 
evidence submitted with respect to the six other claimed criteria. Upon review, we agree with this 
assertion, as the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of 
the petition and does not adequately address the evidence the Petitioner submitted in response to a 
request for evidence (RFE). An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for 
2 
meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see alsoMatter~fM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 
(BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
As noted, the Director already determined that that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion related to judging 
the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Although the decision contains a brief analysis for the 
six additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director's evaluation of each criterion 
contains few or no references to the specific evidence considered and does not adequately inform the 
Petitioner why his evidence was deemed insufficient to satisfy his burden of proof in this matter. 
With respect to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's initial evidence and additional evidence 
submitted in response to the RFE. However, the Director did not provide an adequate analysis ofthis 
evidence and did not explain, for example, why he detennined that the awards "appear to be local or 
regional in nature," that they were not specific to the Petitioner's field or endeavor, that the awards 
"appear to have been given as gratitude for the Petitioner's service," and why the letters from senior 
officials of two of the award-issuing organizations~ I Federal Police and I I 
Chamber of Culture) were given little evidentiaiy weight. Further, the Director's discussion of this 
criterion in the decision closely mirrors that provided in the RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of 
additional evidence with his RFE response. Given the amount and type of evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion, we find the Director's brief analysis does not adequately inform the Petitioner 
of his reasons for concluding that none of the awards satisfied the plain language of the awards 
criterion. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). As with the awards criterion, the Director listed some of the documents the Petitioner 
submitted but did not discuss any specific evidence in his analysis of the criterion, instead reaching a 
conclusory finding that the evidence in general was insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements. 
The Director further concluded that the Petitioner "did not submit evidence to show that the 
associations conferred membership to him," a determination that is not supported by the evidence in 
the record. As the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how 
the evidence supports his eligibility. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he could satisfy the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii) and submitted more than 40 articles published in print and online publications. The 
Director observed that the record included "numerous new articles in which he was featured" but 
determined that the Petitioner did not provide evidence to establish that the published materials 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not submit "material to establish the circulation statistics for the 
news outlets" or "other circulation data to compare with ... these publications." At the same time, the 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's RFE response included information from Similar Web. 
3 
We note that this evidence shows the ranking of some of the submitted publications relative to other 
publications in ~nd indicates that several articles were published in on line outlets ranked 7th 
and 8th itj I Therefore, the Director's determination that there was no evidence that any of the 
articles appeared in major media was not supported by the record. 
On remand, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted in supp01t 
of the published materials criterion, and evaluate whether any of the articles that are about the 
Petitioner and relating to his work in the field also include the date, title and author of the publication 
and appeared in major media or other qualifying publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director observed that the Petitioner was "featured" in numerous articles, we note that 
many of the submitted published materials merely mention his role as a prosecutor in specific 
investigations and cases in his district and are not "about" him as required by the regulatory language. 
In evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(vi), which requires evidence that the Petitioner 
has authored scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he had authored "a book 
and several articles." The Director did not address any of this evidence individually, but rather 
generally stated that the Petitioner did not provide circulation statistics to establish publication in 
major media or "any evidence of the intended audience of these publications." The record reflects 
that the Petitioner addressed the intended audience of his published articles at length in the letter 
included with his RFE response and that the response included additional documentation regarding 
these publications that is not mentioned in the decision. As the matter will be remanded, the Director 
should re-examine the evidence submitted to satisfy this criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), requires the Petitioner to submit evidence that he has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner points to more than 10 exhibits included with the RFE response 
which specifically addressed this criterion. However, the Director's analysis of the criterion is limited 
to three sentences and contains no specific references to the evidence or arguments the Petitioner 
presented with the petition or in response to the RFE. The Director should consider all of the evidence 
submitted when examining this criterion on remand. 
Finally, in evaluating the criterion relating to high salary or other significantly high renpmeration at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted his[ ltax 
returns as evidence of his income, as well as comparative salary data from l I and from an 
"unknown source." On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the information the Director deemed to 
be from "unknown source" was clearly identified in the record as being obtained from the website of 
the Public Ministry o~ land accompanied by a letter from the attorney general of that state 
who provided additional information regarding the Petitioner's salary in relation to others. We agree 
with the Petitioner that the Director should not have discounted this evidence as "unreliable" and 
remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director dete1mines that 
4 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
~ 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entty of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 109467 48 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but later revoked that 
approval on notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2. The Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had provided false information to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) regarding her plans to continue working in the area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
After a preliminary review of the record, we issued a notice of our intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal, 
notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the record of proceeding . The Petitioner 
subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. The Petitioner 's request to withdraw the appeal is granted; 
however, notwithstanding the withdrawal of this appeal, we will enter a separate finding of willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. REQUEST FOR WITHDRAW AL OF THE APPEAL 
As noted above, we issued a NOID, notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the 
record of proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. She did not 
acknowledge, discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in her withdrawal request. 
A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 6); Matter of Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. 9 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, the Petitioner's request will be granted and the appeal will 
be dismissed based on that withdrawal. 
III. MATERIAL MISREPRESENTATION 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about 
her prior employment and claimed recording career, which was material to the adjudication of the 
petition. 
A. Evidence of Record 
The Petitioner claimed to be an alien of extraordinary ability in the arts, specifically as a violinist. As 
examples of her work, the Petitioner submitted what purport to be images of the front and back cover art 
of several compact discs (CDs) of her recorded work. The Petitioner also claimed to have been a professor 
2 
of Music at since 2011; she claimed no other employment during .__ ____________ ____, 
that period. 
Further research, however, calls these claims into question. 
On January 30, 2016, the Petitioner applied for a nonimmigrant visa at the U.S. Embassy iJ._ _ ____. 
Ukraine. At that time, she indicated that she was employed as "Head of Department of Advertising" at I I This information contradicts her later claim to have worked as a music professor 
since 2011. 
The CD back cover art the Petitioner submitted derives from altered images taken from real CD 
packaging. The purported packaging for.__ ______ _, shows a catalog number and artwork 
corresponding to a compilation album called).7ucKomeKa Aeapu5t -Bee Xztmbz: Aeapu5t Ilpomue!. 1 
The purported back cover of I , I shows the logo of thel l1abel; a bar code 
numbered! land the catalog numberl I The last two numerals printed 
with the bar code have been altered; the bar code itself actually scans as 4607115072715, which 
corresponds to I'ape.r,,1, an album by Reflex. 2 Text and logos in the submitted image match elements 
of the Reflex album. The catalog number, also altered, corresponds to the compilation album XXXL 
15 -MaKCllll4llllbHbllt. 3 
The purported back cover o~ I shows a blurred photo of trees; a bar code reading 
'-------~ logos for Fiction Records, Polydor, and Universal; and the web address 
"www.thecure.com." The text also provides separate catalog numbers for "DISC ONE" and "DISC 
TWO," although! I purportedly has only 10 tracks. The back cover text (except for 
the Petitioner's name, in a mismatched font) and the tree image correspond to a 2-CD reissue of 
Seventeen Seconds by the Cure. 4 
The Petitioner has submitted no credible evidence that her claimed CDs actually exist. (The Petitioner 
did not submit the actual CDs themselves, or their original packaging.) Her reliance on falsified images 
of packaging indicates that she did not actually release the claimed CDs. Because the artwork from 
three of her claimed CDs has been falsified, there is reason to question the origin and authenticity of the 
submitted artwork for several other claimed CDs. Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may 
undermine the reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988). We note, here, that the Director of the Nebraska 
Service Center previously concluded that the Petitioner submitted "digitally manipulated" images 
relating to awards and media coverage. The Petitioner did not dispute this conclusion when given the 
opportunity to do so. 
Our NOID gave the Petitioner an opportunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that, if she did not overcome this 
1 Source: https://www.discogs.com/)],11cK0TeKa-ABapm1-Bce-X11Tbr-ABapm1-TTponrn/release/11669604 (last visited Feb. 
2, 2021). 
2 Source: https://www.discogs.com/Reflex-fapeMlrelease/5405130 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021). 
3 Source: https://www.discogs.com/Various-XXXL-15-MaKCIIMaJibHbiii:/release/2374428 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021). 
4 Source: https://www.discogs.com/The-Cure-Seventeen-Seconds/release/493031 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021 ). 
3 
information, then we would make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. We further 
advised that, while the Petitioner had the right to withdraw the petition, such a withdrawal would not 
prevent a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. The Petitioner responded to the NOID 
with a request to withdraw the appeal, but she did not address the above-described adverse findings in 
any way. 
B. Analysis 
The facts and evidence presented in the instant matter warrant a finding of willful misrepresentation 
of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
A misrepresentation is an assertion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a material misrepresentation requires that the 
foreign national willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of 
obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N 
Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See Matter o_f Healy 
and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To be considered material, the misrepresentation must 
be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which 
might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 
536, 537 (BIA 1980). 
USCIS will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits evidence which contains false information. 
In general, a few errors or minor discrepancies are not reason to question the credibility of a foreign 
national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. US., 345 F.3d 683, 
694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes serious errors and discrepancies, and the petitioner 
does not resolve those errors and discrepancies given the opportunity to rebut or explain, then the 
inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that the claims stated in the petition are not true. See 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. 
In this case, the discrepancies in the documents relating to the petition constitute substantial and 
probative evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) calls for evidence of the alien's 
commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact 
disc, or video sales. The Petitioner submitted altered CD artwork specifically to address this regulation, 
and therefore evidence of a claimed recording career is material to her eligibility under section 
203(b )(3 )(A) of the Act. We find that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts regarding the claimed 
CDs. 
The Petitioner's past employment is also material to the petition, because eligibility is based on 
acclaim earned in one's past career. See section 203(b )(2)(A)(i) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner initially claimed that, as a professor, she performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, which relates to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We find that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts relating to her past 
employment in Ukraine, because her own prior statements about her employment history contradict 
the information she provided in the petition. 
4 
When given an opportunity to rebut these findings, the Petitioner offered no rebuttal or explanation 
for the inconsistencies. Instead, she withdrew the appeal. If the Petitioner had not withdrawn the 
appeal, we would have dismissed the appeal based, in part, on these misrepresentations. See Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. at 9; see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation. 
Section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C), provides: 
Misrepresentation -(i) In general -Any alien who, by fraud or willfully 
misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to procure or has 
procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other 
benefit provided under this Act is inadmissible. 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See Matter of M-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter of L-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 1961); Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
First, the Petitioner submitted falsified evidence ( altered images of CD packaging) intended to falsely 
create the appearance of a recording career. The Petitioner's submission of these falsified documents 
in support of her immigrant visa petition constitutes a false representation to a government official. 
The Petitioner also made a false representation to a government official when she claimed to have 
been a music professor since 2011, when her own prior statements show that she was employed in an 
unrelated field during that time. 
Next, we find that the Petitioner willfully made the misrepresentation. The Petitioner has not asserted 
that she believed the images of the claimed CD packaging to be authentic, or explained how she came 
to be in possession of the images. She has also not accounted for providing two conflicting 
employment histories. When given the opportunity to address our findings, the Petitioner withdrew 
the appeal rather than offering any explanation or rebuttal that she submitted the evidence accidentally, 
inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts previously offered in support of the petition were 
true. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner signed Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, certifying under 
penalty of perjury that the visa petition and the submitted evidence are all true and correct. See section 
287(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(b); see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2). Accompanying the signed 
petition, the Petitioner submitted the claimed CD artwork and information about her claimed 
professorship, specifically citing them as evidence in support of the petition. Part 8 of Form I-140 
requires a petitioner to make the following affirmation: "I certify, under penalty of perjury of the 
United States of America, that this petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and correct." 
5 
On the basis of this affirmation, made under penalty of perjury, we find that the Petitioner willfully 
and knowingly made the misrepresentation. 
Third, the misrepresented facts are material. To be considered material, a false statement must be 
shown to have been predictably capable of affecting the decision of the decision-making body. Kungys 
v. US., 485 U.S. 759 (1988). Here, the misrepresentations could have affected the outcome of the 
petition because they purported to address, and to satisfy, specified criteria of eligibility; as noted 
above, the Director initially approved the petition before revoking that approval. In light of the list 
of contradictory evidence and information we described above and in the NOID, we find that the 
Petitioner's misrepresentations were material to her eligibility. 
For these reasons, we will enter a finding that the Petitioner made a willful misrepresentation of a 
material fact. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
By filing the instant petition and submitting falsified evidence relating to her claimed employment and 
recording career, the Petitioner sought to procure a benefit provided under the Act through willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding shall be considered in any future proceeding where 
admissibility is an issue. While the Petitioner has chosen to withdraw her appeal, this does not negate 
our finding that she sought to procure immigration benefits through willful representations of material 
facts, which may render her inadmissible in future proceedings. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15775769 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 6, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business executive , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for various .__ ___________ __. companies since 1996, starting 
as an engineer and rising to execrive porions. After serving as the chief executive officer (CEO) of I I in Saudi Arabia, in 2020 the Petitioner became the CEO ofi I 
which provides services to clients in the oil and gas industry. The Petitioner asserts that he "ranks among 
the top corporate executives in the world and is an internationally acclaimed expert in the field of 
managing international engineering and manufacturing enterprises in the energy industry." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the criteria, relating to a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner has served on the board of trustees of Saudi Arabia's National Power Academy (NP A), 
and ar---7representative at the American Petroleum Institute (API). The Director concluded that 
neithe~ositions constitutes a qualifying membership. On appeal, the Petitioner only discusses 
his role at the NP A, and therefore we consider him to have waived his claim regarding the APL 1 We note 
that materials in the record indicate that the API's members are companies rather than individuals. 
The Petitioner has not established that the NP A's board of trustees is an association in the field. Rather, 
according to its charter, the NP A exists to provide vocational training for the energy industry, and its 
board of trustees is its governing authority. The NP A's I I asserts that the 
Petitioner "was elected to the position of Board Member ... based on his extraordinary achievements in 
the field and his reputation as a leading expert," but the record does not support this assertion. The NP A's 
charter does not indicate that recognized national or international experts elect board members based on 
their outstanding achievements. Rather, the NP A's stakeholders, including! I appoint the board 
members who represent them, and the charter does not indicate how the stakeholders choose whom to 
appoint. The Petitioner's letter of appointment frortj I likewise does not say that the Petitioner's 
achievements were the basis for his appointment. This letter also shows that the decision to name the 
Petitioner to the board lay with his employer, rather than with the NP A. Given the responsibilities and 
authorities of board members, the Petitioner's position may qualify as a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but the Director already 
concluded that the Petitioner has satisfied that criterion. 
The Petitioner has not established his membership in associations that meet the specified requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits numerous exhibits intended to satisfy this criterion, but he does not submit 
evidence to establish that any of the materials appeared in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. Because the burden of proof is on the Petitioner, we do not begin with the assumption 
that the publications meet that requirement. On appeal, the Petitioner cites a previously-submitted letter 
from an executive of "J I multinational investment bank and financial services holding company, 
[who] confirms the publication of major media and trade articles regarding" the Petitioner. The bank 
executive states that "major media from around the world has reported on [the Petitioner's] 
accomplishments," but he does not establish how his background in finance gives him knowledge of trade 
publications in the oil and gas industry. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Many of the materials are deficient for other reasons as well. Several publications, such as Asian Oil & 
Gas, Diesel & Gas Turbine Worldwide, and Oil & Gas News, announced the Petitioner's appointment as 
CEO of1 I These articles include brief biographical sketches of the Petitioner, and we 
conclude that the articles are about him, relating to his work in the field. Nevertheless, these articles do 
not otherwise meet the regulatory reruiremen1s. They lack the required author credit, and the articles are 
either paraphrased or copied from a press release in the record. The record does not show that 
the Petitioner's appointment attracted media notice apart from the publication of materials copied or 
adapted froml lown promotional press release (which is not a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media). Promotional and marketing materials are not generally considered 
to be published materials about the individual.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that his "appointment as CEO ofl I was a direct result 
of his outstanding achievement ... and therefore, announcement of [his] appointment to this executive 
position is absolutely publi[ shed material] about [ the Petitioner] and his achievements." We acknowledge 
that the Petitioner's appointment as CEO o~ I is a significant achievement, however, 
the significance of such an appointment does not overcome basic deficiencies in the submitted evidence. 
As noted above, the regulation requires the published materials to identify their author. In this instance, 
the author of thd~ __ .....,bress release appears to be an unnamed publicist working at, or for,I I 
I I 
Many other articles, as noted by the Director, mention the Petitioner in passing but the articles are not 
about him, relating to his work. On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "Though these articles do not mention 
[the Petitioner] by name, they are written about contracts and projects successfully executed b~ I 
under his direction, and thus his business achievements." The regulation requires the published material 
to be "about" the Petitioner; references to his company and its projects do not meet this requirement. 
Some of the other submitted articles focus significantly on the Petitioner and his work, but, for the reasons 
discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that these articles appeared in qualifying publications. 
The Petitioner has not established that any published materials about him, relating to his work in the field, 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In a statement submitted with the initial filing of the petition, the Petitioner stated that he "authored and 
delivered scholarly presentations at leading international conferences in the field," which deviates from 
the wording of the regulation. In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner further deviated from 
the regulatory language, stating that he "delivered executive presentations." The submitted evidence 
confirms that the Petitioner spoke at two conferences in 2019 and participated in a panel discussion at a 
conference in 2020, but the Petitioner has not shown that his participation resulted in the publication of 
any scholarly articles in professional or trade publications or other major media. 
2 See Adjudicator's Field Manual 22.2(i)(l)(A) as revised by USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.L Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update AD 11-14 7 (Dec. 22. 2010). https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner again describes his three conference appearances, and states that "the 
aforementioned publications and presentations" satisfy the regulatory requirements, but the Petitioner 
submits no evidence that his conference presentations exist in published form, disseminated through 
"media," as the regulations require. Furthermore, because the record does not document the content of 
his presentations in any detail, the Petitioner has not established that his unpublished remarks would 
qualify as scholarly articles if they were published. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner's base salary in his current position is $514,000 per year. To provide a basis for 
comparison to others in the field, the Petitioner submits printouts from the Glassdoor website, indicating 
that the average base pay for CEOs in thel I area is $162,645 per year, and the average base pay 
for CEOs at "Natural Power and Energy" is $282,237 per year. The Glassdoor printouts expressed "Low 
Confidence" in the latter figure, derived from only three samples. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the data presented "an average wage of CEOs in the natural 
energy sector rather than with similarly situated workers in the oil and gas sector." On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the comparison was apt because "oil and gas are considered natural sources of 
energy." The Glassdoor data, however, concerned not "the natural energy sector," but rather the CEO 
position at a company named "Natural Power and Energy." The Petitioner has not established that Natural 
Power and Energy engages in similar business activity tol lor that its CEO's salary is 
sufficiently representative of the field as a whole to serve as a broader basis for comparison. 
The other submitted CEO salary data is organized geographically. The regulation requires evidence that 
the Petitioner's salary is high in relation to others in the field, rather than others in the geographic area. 
While locality can affect pay scales, the Petitioner did not show that the surveyed CEO positions were at 
companies providing services to the oil and gas industry. Also, the Glassdoor printout indicated that, with 
only 17 survey respondents, there were "[ n Jot enough reports to show salary distribution" in th~ I 
area. 
For the above reasons, the submitted data is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner commands a high 
salary in relation to others in the field. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion -relating 
to original contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)- cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence establishing that the 
recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Petitioner's status as the CEO of I I corporation carries with it a certain 
inherent degree of authority and prestige. The record, however, does not rise to the level required for the 
classification sought, and does not support the Petitioner's claim to be "among the top corporate 
executives in the world." Acknowledgment of expertise is not synonymous with sustained national or 
international acclaim among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15776474 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 7, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his law degree in 2007. After serving in various government positions, he co­
founded a law firm inl O I A biographical sketch in the record indicates that "he 
has been working as a consultant for the Federal Public Service for Home Affair~ ~' and the 
General Directorate Aliens' Office] I' The Petitioner has provided legal services for local offices 
o~ land I I in I Las well asl ts Agency for Youth and 
Sport. The Petitioner entered the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student in 2018, studying for a 
Master of Law degree at~ HCollege of Law. He established a law firm inl I itj I 
2020, and now practice: 0 Jaw. His firm filed a nonimmigrant petition on the Petitioner's 
behalf in August 2020, five months after the filing of the present immigrant petition. The approval of 
that petition in November 2020, while the present appeal was pending, granted the Beneficiary status as 
an 0-1 nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability.1 
The Petitioner claims to have received a major, internationally reco nized award from,..._ ___ _,. § a business and legal news website headquartered in the 
presented the Petitioner with a Legal 2015 A ward for'-------.----------­
he "About Our Awards" page on the entity's website claims: 
A wards represent the pinnacle of business achievement, championing the best in their respective 
fields." I Is own promotional materials do not establish that the awards are 
internationally recognized. 
1 The record before us does not provide further information about the approval of the nonimmigrant petition, or show whether 
that approval relied on the same evidence now before us. We are not required to approve applications or petitions where 
eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of possibly erroneous approvals in separate proceedings. See Matter of 
Church Scientology Int'!, 19 T&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988). Furthermore, our authority over the service centers is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director had approved 
the nonimmigrant petitions on behalf of the petitioner, we would not be bound to follow the contradictory decision of a service 
center. Louisiana Philhannonic Orchestra v. INS, 44 F. Supp. 2d 800, 803 (E.D. La. 1999). 
2 
The Petitioner states that winners are selected through a global survey, and that the awarding entity 
has prestigious international partners including well-known law firms and the American Bar 
Association. The Petitioner asserts, therefore, that the award is comparable to a "Noble [sic] Prize." 
The entity's own website describes a two-step award process: "the first step is to receive a nomination 
through our entry form below. The nomination will then be assessed by the ~~-----~ 
team." The website lists various "media partnerships" but there is no indication that the partner entities 
have any input into the selection of award winners. Rather, the partners appear to be sponsors of the 
website. The record does not show who nominated the Petitioner for the award or how many others 
were nominated for the same award in 2015. 
I I announced the award winners in its own publication, but the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence to establish recognition of thd I Awards outside of the awarding 
entity itself. The record does not support the Petitioner's claim that the I I Awards 
have a level ofrecognition comparable to the Nobel Prize. 
The Petitioner also claims to satisfy five of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only one of the 
regulatory criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts that, because the Director did not consider the.__ ________ __. Award to 
be a major, internationally recognized award, the Director should have considered the award under this 
criterion. The Petitioner, however, has not submitted any information about this award except for 
promotional materials from the awarding entity. Such materials, by their nature, cannot establish outside 
recognition of the awards. 
Certificates show that the Petitioner won three.__ ________ __. Awards from thel I 
I l A web printout in the record states: "The I I I I Award® is given to the highest scoring student in each law school class at many law 
schools .... About half of our 200 member law schools distribute~ards." I lmay be a 
national organization, but the pool of potential winners for any particular L_J Award is limited to the 
students in one class at one school (for example, 'I . I' atl O I 
College of Law). The Petitioner has not shown that these individual awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
3 
The Petitioder a)so cres two recommendation letters as qualifying prizes or awards. An education 
specialist at~_--~- s office inl I states that the Petitioner provided legal services connected to 
certain law and policy initiatives. The executive director of.__ ______ ---. ____ __. calls the 
Petitioner "one of the finest legal consultants we have ever had." Neither letter indicates that the Petitioner 
received any prize or award for his work, and the letters themselves are not prizes or awards; there is no 
indication that the issuance of these two reference letters received national or international recognition. 
Rather, these are em lo ent recommendation reference letters, intended for submission to prospective 
employers. T,_.,...... _ __, letter states: "I would highly recommend [the Petitioner] for any professional 
endeavor"; the.__ _ __.letter states that the Petitioner "will be a valuable addition to any company" and 
"an extremely positive asset to your organization." These letters enthusiastically recommend the 
Petitioner to prospective employers, but they are not prizes or awards, nor do they indicate that the 
Petitioner won prizes or awards for the work described. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
A letter from thel I Bar Associatio~ lindicates that the Petitioner "has been a delegate 
to the Assembly ofthel IBar As~ with a mandate period from 2014-2018 and 2018-
2022 as a delegate from the Law Communit)L__J4." The Petitioner asserts that his status as a delegate 
is a qualifying membership, because "the Assembly is the highest body of the Bar," and his election to 
the assembly establishes that his "achievements are recognized nationally." A translated copy of the 
Assembly's Charter, however, states: "The Assembly elects one Delegate for every ten lawyers from a 
single law community," indicating that ten percent of all bar association members are also delegates. 
(Emphasis added.) Furthermore, the reference to "a single law community" indicates that the elections 
are local, rather than national. In the Petitioner's case, the Charter established four law communities in 
the city of ~nd the letter from the Bar Association states that he is "a delegate from the Law 
CommunityL___j.'' 
There is no evidence that any lawyers outside thel I law community voted for that community's 
delegates, and no indication that the votes were contingent on outstanding achievements by candidates. 
The Petitioner maintains that, given the nature of the selection process, "only those who have outstanding 
achievements will be selected," but a letter from the organization indicates that "lawyers elect their 
representatives," indicating that the selections are made by the general membership rather than any 
designated group or panel of recognized national or international experts. The Petitioner acknowledges 
that "all members of the bar" are eligible to vote, but he asserts that "at least some [voters] will have 
national recognition itj t' The abiliJ to vote, however, is not restricted to lawyers with such 
recognition. The statistical possibility that the I J I law community probably includes prominent 
lawyers is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner cites an "expert opinion letter" from an attorney and adjunct professor in New York, who 
states: "As with any such organization, the I I requires outstanding achievements of its members for 
4 
such an important and high-profile position. Not only are outstanding achievements required but also 
recognition as [the Petitioner] had to be nominated to this position by his peers and then had to win 
election amongst others who were al~inated." The individual who wrote this letter does not 
establish first-hand familiarity with thel___Js delegate election process, nor does she cite any sources 
for her claims of fact. The record does not establish any specific facts about the Petitioner's election to 
his delegate position. For instance, the record does not show that the election was in fact contested 
between different nominees. The Petitioner cites this same letter in support of other claims, but the letter 
essentially repeats the Petitioner's own claims without citing specific, objective support for them. 
Thel lis an association in the field, but the record does not establish ( and the Petitioner does not 
claim) that it requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judgld by rcognized national or 
international experts. The Petitioner relies on his membership not in the as a whole, but in its 
Assembly. The information in the record, however, does not establish that the Assembly is an association 
in the field in its own right. Rather, it is the governing body for thel I 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As noted above, the Petitioner submits letters from locall I officials ofj land ~--~I In addition to claiming that these letters are prizes or awards as discussed above, the Petitioner 
also contends that they show he performed in leading or critical roles for both organizations. The letters 
show that the Petitioner performed specified tasks for both organizations, such as "comparative analysis 
of ECEC policies and laws in the region." 
The Petitioner also submits copies of agreements indicating that the I !Alien Office temporarily 
hired him "to help thd I Desk Accessibility ... expand an information platform on access to health 
care in countries of origin." The Petitioner's role consisted of "answering ... Questions and Answers" 
and "drafting a country questionnaire whose content focuses on the healthcare system." The Petitioner 
does not establish that this work amounted to a critical role, rather than an ad hoc advisory capacity. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "was a 'leader' [ for JI I because the letter shows that he "managef d] 
a team of legal experts," and that his role was critical because his engagement permittedl to 
"accomplish their goal of gaining approval for their proposed provisions." The Petitioner asserts that his 
work for I ~as critical because, accorjing to Tat organization's letter, his work 
produced "outstanding results." With regard to his work for government agency, the Petitioner 
states that his work was essential because the contracts indicated that the agency "required the insight of 
a specialist." The Petitioner cites a dictionary definition of "require" as "to demand as necessary or 
essential: have a compelling need for." 
We have taken these arguments into consideration, but we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that 
his narrow and limited involvement as a legal consultant was critical to any of these organizations. Also, 
the Petitioner did not have a leading role forl I at the organizational level, and he has not shown 
that the "team of legal experts" was, itself: an organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. The submitted letters and contracts show that the organizations retained the Petitioner's 
5 
services in order to meet specific goals, but it does not follow that a reason for employment amounts to a 
critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that benefits their employer in some way. Here, 
the Petitioner has not established that his work for the above entities was critical to the organizations 
themselves, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or projects. 
The Petitioner has documented his work for well-known organizations, but he has not established that his 
tasks there amounted to leading or critical roles. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published material about the individual in professional or other major 
trade publications or other major media, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve this issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his occasional work for high-profile 
clients, and his service as a delegate to a governing body that includes 10% of all I I members, 
establishes the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner bears the 
burden of proof in this proceeding, and his assertions regarding his awards, his~ delegate position, 
and other accomplishments lack sufficient corroboration. The objective documentation in the record 
indicates more limited impact and recognition. For example, the Petitioner co-wrote a chapter in a 
law textbook, but the only documented use of that textbook is in a course taught by the book's editor. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493401 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 12, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research university, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , its campus biological safety 
officer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it 
did not establish that she has achieved the required sustained national or international acclaim and 
placement among the small percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a 
beneficiary's achievements in the field have been recognized in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiaiy 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as its Campus Biological Safety Officer since May 2018 
and intends to continue to employ her in this position. The Beneficiary earned her doctorate in 
biological sciences ( environmental microbiology) in 2014 and has worked in the biological safety and 
biosecurity field since that time. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the 
Beneficiary met three of these evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others in her field, 
authorship of scholarly articles in journals and conference proceedings, and serving in a leading or 
critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) 
and (viii). The Director concluded that the record did not sufficiently support the Petitioner's claim 
that the Beneficiary also satisfies the criterion related to original contributions of major significance 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As the Director determined that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements, he reviewed 
the totality of the evidence in a final merits determination. He denied the petition after concluding 
that the Petitioner did not establish thatthe Beneficiary has achievedsustainednational or international 
acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his determination that the Beneficiary does 
not meet the original contributions criterion at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), did not give sufficient weight 
to expert opinion letters in the record, and did not appropriately weigh the evidence of the 
Beneficiary's achievements in the final merits analysis. 
2 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary satisfied the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii). We will therefore tum to the final merits 
determination below, where we will also consider the Petitioner's claims regarding the Beneficiary's 
original contributions in her field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits detennination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 Here, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this standard. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary completed a bachelor of science and master of science in 
biotechnology atl !university in 2004 and 2006, respectively. She subsequently attended I !University I I, where she completed her master of science in 
plant molecular genetics and biotechnology (2009), and her doctorate degree in biological sciences 
with a concentration in environmental microbiology (2014). In June 2018, shereceivedanrofessional 
certification as a Registered Biosafety Professional from the I I 
International I [ntemational). The Beneficiary's professional experience includes employment 
as a microbiology consultant and laboratory safety scientist at I I (2013-2016), as a 
Biological Safety Officer a~ I University (2016 to 2018), and as the Petitioner's Campus 
Biological Safety Officer since May 2018. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary meets the criteria for judging, 
scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. It has also submitted evidence related to her 
contributions to the biosafety and biosecurity field. At issue is whether the record establishes that she 
is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field and that she has sustained 
national or international acclaim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The record demonstrates that the Beneficiary has participated as a judge of the work of others in her 
field. An evaluation of the significance of her judging experience is appropriate to determine if such 
evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. See 
~an, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's service as a judge for 
l__Jinternational' s annual I !Publication A ward in 2019, but determined that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that her "participation in the widespread peer-review process, a routine 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanua1/HTh1LJPolicyManua1.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
process in the field relying on many scientists, exceeds that of other researchers or reflects sustained 
acclaim." The Director further observed that such acclaim "is more commonly associated with 
selection for service on editorial boards of prestigious journals or serving as general chair of 
professional scientific conferences." The Director concluded that serving as a judge on one occasion 
within one year of the filing of the petition did not reflect that the Beneficiary has "a career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's characterization of the Beneficiary as a "researcher," 
emphasizing that the record does not represent her as such. Therefore, the Petitioner argues that 
"USCIS's opinion as to what constitutes acclaim is misguided and their substitution of their opinion 
as to what constitutes acclaim" in the Beneficiary's field is "an abuse of discretion." With respect to 
the Beneficiary's paiiicipation as a judge forl IInternational'sl !Award, the 
Petitioner maintains that the Director "ignored the magnitude of this honor" and that the Beneficiary's 
service as a judge in this capacity "was on a level of sustained national or international acclaim." 
The evidence reflects that the,__ ______ ~Award is granted by I I International annually 
to the author(s) of an aiiicle published in the association's Applied Biosafety journal which "repmts a 
~cant contribution in scientific investigation and/or health and safety." A screenshot from the 
L__Jwebsite indicates that award nominations are made by a committee formed by two members of 
its awards committee and two members of its publications committee. The Petitioner also provided 
evidence that the Beneficiary, who was co-chair oQ !publications committee, was one of the 
committee members who volunteered to review and score articles as part of the award nominating sub­
committee. The evidence does not establish, however, how the Beneficiary's voluntary paiiicipation 
on the nominating committee for this publication award is "on a level of sustained national or 
international acclaim" or sufficiently corroborate the claimed "magnitude of this honor." 
The record also demonstrates that the Beneficiary rrnrticipated as a mentor in L ~ 
I I annuall • JProgram, which is operated byl,_ __ ____.I and 
sponsored by the U.S. Department of State. 2 The evidence indicates that the program pairs 
experienced biosafety professionals from developed countries with their counterparts in the 
developing nations to enhance networking opportunities, share best practices, and identify 
opportunities for improvement, collaboration, and professional develo ment. The record reflects that 
the Beneficiary mentored! lof the,...._ __ -,,------- ......... ------.--,---' 
I I The Petitioner explains that she "has been serving as a mentor and,-J·=u=d=e--'o;..;:f'-'- ____ _____. work 
in his eff mis lo impTve the overall biosaf ety and biosecurity of the 
laboratories at ' research ~-----~ 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's invitation to serve as a mentor in this prestigious 
international program "does in fact demonstrate sustained acclaim," emphasizing that several of the 
experts who provided letters in support of the petition mention that they "are aware of her role in this 
project." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that "only the most accomplished and reputable 
biosafety professionals are recruited to serve as mentors within the ...._ _________ __. 
2 We note that while the Petitionersubmittedevidencerelated to this program for consideration underthejudgingcriterion 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204 .5 (h )(3)(iv ), the Director did not address this evidence in the final merits determination. 
4 
Pro am." The Petitioner rovided a letter from a seruor .__ ___________ ___. 
member of the technical staff at I !Program.I I who._i_s_a-ls_o_t_h_e_c_h-a1-.r-o-f:~~~~~~,....I-n-te-m-at-io_n_a_l_E_n_g_a_g_em_e_n_t_C_o_m_m_it_te_e_., 
discusses the Beneficiary's work withl I and indicates that he invited her to join the I I 
I !Program based on her "reputation as a highly skilled biosafety and security pBof i n 1 
with a proven track record ofleadership and engagement, especially in her many roles within ' 
He also states that "all biosaf ety professionals selected from the United States for th 
Program have been outstanding members ofl I" and tha~ l"has areputationofcollaboratin 
with the be f h h biosafety and biosecurity personnel." L-----r-- 7 
Director of states that he has served as a mentor in the 
'----------------' Program and can confirm that I l"has a reputation of w._o_r_kin ___ g_. 
and collaborating with the best and brightest" in the field. 
The record, however, does not sufficiently document the criteria or process by which this peer 
mentorship program invites or selects its mentors or indicate whether or to what extent selection is 
based on a prospective mentor's national or international acclaim in the field. The evidence in the 
record supports a determination that participation as a mentor in the ~-----------~ program is regarded in the field as a significant professional achievement, but the record does not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's involvement in the 2019 program sets her apart from her peers to 
the extent that it reflects her placement among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of 
her field. Nor does the evidence establish that she garnered national or international acclaim because 
of her participation. Overall, the Petitioner has documented two instances of the Beneficiary's 
participation as a judge that took place during the year preceding the filing of this petition. It has not 
demonstrated how this recent experience supp01is a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723,59. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, the Director observed that she had 
published "approximately 13 scholarly articles, only two of which had been cited, receiving 15 total 
citations." 3 The Director determined that, while the citations show that the field has noticed her w01k, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the citation rates are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. The Director reached the same 
conclusion with respect to the Beneficiary's publication record, noting that the Petitioner did not 
provide, for example, evidence that would allow a comparison between her publication and citation 
record with those who are recognized for being at the top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's professional field of biological safety and 
security "is not a purely academic, nor a purely scientific filed. It is a professional field that mandates 
the dissemination of original and groundbreaking information through hands-on conferences and 
workshops." The Petitioner emphasizes that most of the Beneficiary's peer-reviewed publications 
3 The record reflects that the Director obtained these figures from the Beneficiaty's Google Scholar citation histoty 
submitted in responseto a request for evidence in September 2020. While there are 13 titles listed, it does not appear that 
evety listed item was published in a peer-reviewed professional publication such as a j oumal or conference proceeding 
For example, three of the entries are for professional development courses for which the Beneficiaty served as a co­
instructor and three are for workshops orwebinars that do not have associated published proceedings. The Beneficiaiy's 
resume lists six publications in peer-reviewed conference proceedings between 2012 and 2018, one peer-reviewed journal 
article published in 2016, and two additionaljournalarticles that were "inpreparation"as of2020. 
5 
"appear in major conference proceedings for all of the conferences in which she has presented her 
extraordinary work in biological safety and biosecurity." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that the 
Beneficiary "is not in a field where citations are common," and submits that "citations are not an 
accurate means of determining whether [ the Beneficiary] has established a sufficient level of interest 
in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim." While the Petitioner de­
emphasizes the importance of publications and citations in the biosafety field, the record reflects that 
there are in fact peer-reviewed journals and conferences in this field and does not sufficiently 
corroborate the Petitioner's claim that citations in this field are generally uncommon. 
Further, the Petitioner has not offered an alternate basis for comparison to demonstrate how the 
Beneficiary's record of scholarly publications and conference presentations sets her apart from other 
biosafety professionals and places her among the small percentage at the top of the field. The record 
reflects that, at the time of filing, she had six publications in peer-reviewed international conference 
proceedings, two of which were published after she completed he~nd started working in the 
biosafety field. 4 Specificall she resented at the 2017 and 20 I 8l__Jrnternational Conferences. 
The record reflects that she professional development course onc=J 
'at the 201 7 International Conference and co-instructed the pre-
conference course '~----------.------.------------------~' on 
three occasion, International Conferences at the 10th International 
Symposium fo,__ ________ ~ in 2018). A letter from I I who served as 
the Beneficiary's co-instructor for the latter course, emphasizes that 'I !pre-conference [courses] 
are peerreviewed by thd bre-conf erence committee,"notingthat "itis an extremely competitive 
process, where only a few courses are selected to be present[ ed] after a thorough peer review." 
While we do not doubt that the Beneficiary's active involvement ici !International conferences 
has garnered her recognition from conference attendees who participated in her workshops and 
sessions, the record does not establish how her publications in conference proceedings over the last 
three years, none of which have been cited by others, have earned her sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field or how her activities in these areas compare to other professionals in 
the field. Further, while the record indicates that there is a competitive peer review process associated 
with participation in these conferences, the evidence does not demonstrate that presentation 
opportunities and workshops are reserved only for those at the top of the biosafetyfield. The selection 
of the Beneficiary's papers and courses in consecutive years is noteworthy and reflective of the high 
quality of her work. We also note that several of the expert opinion letters comment on her talents as 
a public speaker and educator and her ability to effectively communicate with diverse audiences. 
However, the record does not establish how the Beneficiary's scholarly work, whether published or 
presented, has earned her sustained acclaim, or how it sets her apart from others and places her among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ta !ks" ra tlier than as peer-reviewed conference proceeding publications. 
6 
The Director's decision reflects that he acknowledged both the Beneficiary's leading and critical role 
for the Petitioner, and the Petitioner's distinguished reputation. The Director concluded, however, 
that the record did not demonstrate that her employment in this role reflects or has resulted in the 
Beneficiary's widespread acclaim in the field. Further, the Director observed that the record did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary had held a leading or critical role for any other organizations or 
establishments with distinguished reputations. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director 
"ignored the evidence" when determining that the Beneficiary's role for the Petitioner is not 
"representative of sustained national or international acclaim or 'a career of acclaimed work in the 
field."' The Petitioner also argues that ''nothing in the regulations requires the beneficiary to show 
that she was in a leading or critical role with more than one distinguished organization, but in fact, she 
was." 
The Petitioner highlights the evidence in the record which establishes the critical nature of the 
Beneficiary's role for the petitioning university and the Petitioner's own distinguished reputation 
among research universities. This evidenc.l includes letters from several university officials, including 
I 11 I. I andl IThe Petitioner 
extensively quotes from these letters and maintains that "ample evidence has been provided in support 
of [the Beneficiary's] critical role." However, the Beneficiary's critical role for the Petitioner has been 
acknowledged and is not at issue. The letters referenced above discuss the Beneficiazy's 
responsibilities and accomplishments in great detail and confirm that she serves in a highly critical 
role for the petitioning university, that she chairs a working group of biosafety officers within the 
University! I system, and that she has been an invaluable technical and subject matter expert 
in the rural county where the Petitioner is located, coordinating both the university response and 1he 
local public health response to the coronavirus pandemic, paiiicularly while this petition was pending 
However, these letters do not explain how the Beneficiary had already receivedrecognition in the field 
based on her campus biosafety role and her leadership of campus and community pandemic response 
efforts atthe time the petition was filed in March 2020. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1). In its response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner provided evidence that the Beneficial had 1een invited to speak on COVID-19 
biosaf ety related topics, including a webinar sponsored by International and a webinar hosted 
by the I O I in India, in August and September 2020. The 
Petitioner also indicated at the time of the RFE response that the Beneficiary had three new 
manuscripts for publication underway "all of which relate directly to the pressing COVID-19 
pandemic." However, the record does not establish that speaking engagements that occurred after 1he 
filing of the petition or papers that have not yet been published have contributed to her national or 
international acclaim in the field at the time of filing. 
The evidence provided at the time of filing did not demonstrate how the Beneficiary's performance in 
the Campus Bio safety Officer role resulted in her national or international recognition or otherwise 
drew significant attention from the greater field. The Petitioner emphasizes that "it goes without 
saying that due to the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic, the role of biological safety and biosecurity 
officers are being highlighted worldwide," but this general assertion does not speak to the 
Beneficiary's individual acclaim in the field when this petition was filed. 
7 
The Petitioner further argues that the Director failed to consider evidence establishing the 
Beneficia 's leadin role wit International which is described in the record as "the world's 
professional organization." Specifically, the 
.... P_e-t1-. t1-. o_n_e_r_e_m--h-a-si_z_e_s -th-at-th_e_B_e_n_e_f-ic_i_a_ry_w_a_s_a~founding member of I I Intemational's 
1.;-----------,. ____ ____J(which was later given committee status), serves as chair of its 
.==========='--=a::.:n;:.:d::....:::a.1c:.P.r;:,Pea~video series made b~ I International to celebrate I _ _ lin L__J 2019. The Petitioner particularly emphasizes that the 
Beneficiary's nomination to serve in the critical role of chairperson for the I 1 I 
I l "confirms that biosafety professionals around the world view [her] as a leader in this 
field." 5 
The Petitioner submitted a screen shot fro~ !International' s website Oorg/leadership) which 
indicates that the association's leadership includes a president, a council that serves as its governing 
body, several teams (each of which has its own leadership and is made up of several committees), and 
committees, which are each led by a chairperson/co-chair. The website's section on "Teams & 
Committees" states that "the individuals listed on this page are volunteers" in reference to the team 
and committee leaders. The record also includes a letter addressed to the Beneficiary froml I 
International~--------~in which he thanks her for being a chai1j--P-ll--11li;I.__ ___ ___._ I [ and notes that"[ v ]olunteers are the lifeblood of any association andl__Jinternational 
would not existing without the caring, dedicated, knowledgeable and highly professional volunteers 
from around the globe." 
Reference letters from bot~ I andl !International Ex~cutive Direptorl I 
Oaddress the Beneficiary's committee roles within the association.l._ ___ __.!states that "[h]errise 
to significant leadership roles withinl I International is evidence that [the Beneficiary] is truly 
regarded as an international expert in the areas of biosafety and biosecurity." I Jmentions 
that the Beneficiary was nominated for he~ I co-chair and chair roles and that this "speaks 
volumes about the regard her peers hold for her work." However, as noted above, other evidence 
indicates that committee positions, including chair or other leadership positions, are staffed by 
volunteers. Absent additional evidence or explanation regarding the nomination and approval process 
for committee chair positions, it is unclear to what extent serving in such a role for one of many of I !International' s committees is reflective of or results in one's national or international acclaim 
within the organization or within the broader field. 
Overall, the record reflects that the Beneficiary has been a very active member ofl I since joining 
the organization in 2014 and has heldl I positions since 2017. She 
has also raised her profile by having herl I presentations and/or worksho s accepted for 
inclusion in the organization's annual conferences in 201 7, 2018 and 2019. notes that as 
a result of these activities, she is "starting to be seen as a leader within,___ ..... ' but the evidence does 
not demonstrate that her activities within this professional association over the last few years have 
5 The Petitioner emphasizes that publication of the journal Applied Biosafety is one of the most important goals ofn 
International as a professional associati~that this makes the Petitioner's role on the...,I ------~-~ 
particularly critical. The screenshot fromL__Jinternational's leadership page indicates that there is a Journal Board 
responsible forpublication of Avvlied Bioscience, led byl I editors. The stated 
purpose ofth~ lis "to promote andfosterthel fbiosafotymedia." 
8 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim in her field or placed her among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
We have also considered evidence related to the Beneficiary's original contributions in her fielµhlcll, 
includes the above-referenced statements from the Petitioner's representatives and L___J 
International leadership, as well as other professional acquaintances and colleagues. The Petitioner 
identified the Beneficiary's contributions as (1) the development of "the first biosafety annual audit 
program inl I' and (2) the "selection of her original work for presentation at 
conferences, workshops, symposia and webinars in the field." 
In his letter,I lofl I provides details regardin the Beneficia 's 
mentorship relationship with I lof I las a participant in the..,._ __ --.-____ ,,... I Wrogram, noting that "with the expert guidance of [the Beneficiary ],,___ _ ____,is developing 
an annual lab audit program, which when piloted successfully at I lwould also be shared with 
oth~research labs. "I ~ also mentions in his letter that the Beneficiary's project plan 
foil__J was expected to serve as a model for other laboratories throughoutc=Jand would "be 
highly beneficial to the region as a whole in terms of responding to modem global pandemics." In 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitio1er prorded more information about the 
project, explainingthatl lwas jointly established by the government and theb I 
of the National Institutes of Health as s first ~---------------~ Biosafety Level 3 laboratory." The Petitioner stated that the facility had never conducted an annual 
biosafety audit program prior to [the Beneficiary;s] inrrvention" and that no such annual biosafety 
audit had been conducted nor existed anywhere in up to that point." 
The Petitioner later submitted a letter fro ml I y,ho states that " [ the Beneficiary's] I I 
could not have come at a more critical time forl "~' at the time his letter was written was 
analyzing 90% of the samples for COVID-19 samples inl__j He emphasized thatl kvould not 
have the capacity to test and analyze such a large volume of samples if the Beneficiary had not 
provided her re latory and practical guidance in implementing the biosafety program at the 
laboratory . .._--~~~~-~~~~~.........,utions tol~--~f'stands to serve as a model for other 
laboratories in " This evidence establishes that the Beneficiazy's 
participation in the .-----;_ ________ __, program resulted in an important contribution to 
laboratory safety at ~-~that became particularly significant in l,igh,Lof the COVID-19 pandemic 
and is expected to influence laboratory safety practices throughoutl_Jin the future. However, the 
record does not establish how the implementation of the annual audit program afl I had resulted 
in the Beneficiary's individual acclaim or recognition outside the program itself when the petition was 
filed. 
The Petitioner has maintained that the Beneficiary's "highest contributions come in the form of widely 
broadcast, high impact (and often times international) presentations of her unparalleled knowledge 
and expertise in biological safety and biosecurity." The Petitioner particularly highlighted the 
selection criteria for the I I Annual Conference, noting that the selection of presentations and 
workshops is based on factors that include the relevance of the topic, scientific merit, the targeted 
audience, and, if applicable past evaluations of the speaker or course instructor. The record reflects 
that since 2017 the Beueficianrbad been au inviter: presenter at twol I conferences and at two I Symposia in Mexico and has co-instructed pre-
conference workshops at both conferences. She also gave a webinar presentation for a live stream 
9 
event sponsored b~ land fas invited to give a talk at 
the 4t~ !Workshop sponsored by th~.___ ____ __.joffice andl I 
University. The submitted recommendation letters discuss these activities, but do not establish how 
her individual presentations and workshops are deemed by the field to be contributions of major 
significance or how they, individually or collectively, reflect her sustained national or international 
acclaim or are otherwise indicative of a high level of recognition in her field. The record therefore is 
insufficient to support a finding that the Beneficiary's contributions have been recognized by the field 
in a manner consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the record contains recommendation letters from the Beneficiary's colleagues and 
professional acquaintances that discuss her professional achievements and express the authors' 
opinions regarding her standing in their shared field. For instance,! I states that the 
Beneficiary "is truly a rising star in biological safety and biosecurity," who, in "in a very short period 
of time ... has established herself as an expert in these fields" and "has a bright future ahead of her as 
an internationally recognized expert." Further! lstates that the Beneficiary's "knowledge 
in the realm of biological safety, risk, security and management are undoubted! extraordin· and 
place her among a small group of experts o eratin at the ve to of the field." 
a supervisory microbiologist with the.__ __________________ __. Biorisk 
Management Unit, states that the Beneficiary is "a professional who possesses extraordinary 
knowledge and skill of the biosafety and biosecurity field" who has been "on a path to becoming a 
notable biosafety professional" since joining the profession in 2014.1 I states that "it 
is my professional opinion that [the Beneficiary] is an internationally recognized expert in this field 
and she is rapidly emerging as one of the leading scientists and educator in the field of Bio safety and 
Biosecurity in the United States." 
Here, while the letters (including those reviewed and not discussed here) praise the Beneficiary's 
expertise in her field, they do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that she is already viewed by her overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record establishes that the Beneficiary is a successfuL 
committed professional who performs important work in the biosafety and biological security field. 
The evidence provides support forl Is assertion that the Beneficiary is "a rising star" who 
has gained notice in the field for her achievements over the past several years and is likely poised for 
national or international recognition in the future. 
However, the record as a whole does not establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for the benefit sought 
Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification 
as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, wi1h 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16226128 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 13, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a medical researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(i)-( x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonsti·ates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical researcher who indicates that he is currently employed as a Chief Research 
Fellow a...__ ____________________ -,--_ ___. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner previously served as Head of the Department of Medical History at~------~ 
Medical University from 2010 until 2017. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Here, the Petitioner initially claimed to meet six of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
Subsequently, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), informing the Petitioner, in part, that 
he satisfied one of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Specifically, the Director stated: "The evidence demonstrates that the beneficiary 
has published scholarly material in a professional journal. As such the submitted evidence meets this 
criterion." In addition, the Director notified the Petitioner that he may submit additional evidence to 
fulfill the other five claimed criteria. 
2 
In the Director's decision denying the petition, he determined that the Petitioner met the criterion 
relating to leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation, at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5 (h )(3 )(viii). Further, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criteria relating 
to published materials, judging, original contributions, and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), 
(v) and (vii). Although he indicated in the RFE that the Petitioner satisfied the scholarly articles 
criterion, the Director's decision does not mention this criterion and reaches no final determination as 
to whether it was satisfied. 
Further, the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the 
petition with respect to two of the other criteria, and does not adequately address the evidence the 
Petitioner submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE). An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a fair oppmiunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3 ( a )(1 )(i); 
see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
As noted, the Director already determined that that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion related to his 
performance in leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will remand the matter, in 
paii, so that the Director can issue a new decision that includes a dete1mination with respect to the 
scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which, as noted, was mentioned in the RFE but 
absent from the final decision. 
In addition, although the decision contains a brief analysis for four additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director's evaluation of the judging and original contributions criteria includes 
few or no references to the specific evidence considered and does not adequately inform the Petitioner 
why his evidence was deemed insufficient to satisfy his burden of proof with respect to these criteria. 
With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Director listed some of the 
evidence submitted, stated the regulatory requirements, and concluded, without providing any analysis 
or discussion of the listed evidence, that the Petitioner did not meet satisfy the criterion. Similarly, the 
Director's discussion of the evidence submitted in support of the original contributions criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) is limited to a briefreference to one supporting letter and a patent, and does not 
take into account all of the claims and evidence the Petitioner submitted in support of this criterion. As 
the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in 
support of these two criteria, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how the 
evidence supports his eligibility. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitionerrequested that evidence he submitted to satisfy the display 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) be considered as comparable evidence pursuant to 8 C.F.R 
§ 2 04. S(h )(4 ). The Director acknowledged the evidence provided but did address the Petitioner's request 
3 
that such evidence should be accepted under the comparable evidence regulation. As the matter will be 
remanded to the Director, he should address this request in the new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entty of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicators Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16156434 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 13, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of the denial. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we also dismissed. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both the motion to reopen and 
the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which in this case was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combinedmotion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner 
has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous 
combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal after determining that she did establish that she meets any of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 In the previous motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence that she had authored a book published in September 2019, almost two 
years after the petition's December 2017 filing date. The Petitioner maintained that this new evidence 
demonstrated that she satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which relates to authorship 
of scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In 
dismissing the motion to reopen, we determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that her 
publication of the e-book satisfied any of this criterion's requirements. Specifically, it was not shown 
to be a scholarly article in the acting field, nor did the self-published e-book qualify as a professional 
1 On appeal, thePetitionermaintained that she met four criteria at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relatingto lessernationally 
or internationally recognized a wards or prizes, published material in major media, original contributions of major 
significance in the field, and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v) and (viii). 
2 
or major trade publication or other major media. Further, because the book was published in 2019, it 
could not establish that the Petitioner met the eligibility requirements for this criterion at the time of 
filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, we determined that she did not show proper 
cause to warrant reopening. 
With respect to the prior motion to reconsider, we observed that, apart from the Petitioner's new claim 
that she could satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the brief submitted in supp01i of the 
motion was essentially identical to the Petitioner's previous appellate brief. Although the Petitioner 
contended that we erred in our dismissal of the appeal, she did not attempt to identify or rebut any 
specific errors in our decision or establish how we had misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
adjudicating her appeal. For this reason, we also dismissed the motion to reconsider. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits new evidence intended to demonstrate that she 
seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability, as required by 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). However, the Petitioner's intention to 
work as an actress in the United States is not at issue in this proceeding, as it was not a basis for either 
the denial of the petition or our dismissal of her appeal or previous motion. As discussed, the petition 
was denied and the appeal dismissed because the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner does not claim that the newly submitted evidence, most of which dates from 2020, 
relates to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Further, even if it did, the Petitioner 
must establish that she met at least three of those criteria as of the date of filing in 20 I 7, as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). The new evidence establishes that the Petitioner has her own Y ouTube 
channel on which she posts content such as commercials, makeup and beauty tutorials, and interviews 
with other performing artists. She provides background information regarding some of the individuals 
who collaborated with her on these videos. She also provides evidence that she appeared as a guest 
on the ...___,~---~------.-.1 podcast irl I 2020, as well as screenshots from Instagram as 
evidence of her attendance at several events in 2020. 
The Petitioner's newly submitted evidence, which does not relate to the grounds for denial or pre-date 
the filing of the petition, does not establish proper grounds for reopening. We will therefore dismiss 
the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's brief in support of the motion to reconsider, apart from a section addressing the new 
evidence discussed above, is almost identical to the briefs that she previously submitted on appeal and 
in support of the first motion. The Petitioner includes a general statement that we erred in dismissing 
the previous motion but she does not specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she 
attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in that decision. 
3 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). 2 ("[A] 
motion to reconsider is not a process by which a patiy may submit, in essence, the same brief presented 
on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior. . . decision. The moving 
party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked 
in our initial decision .... ") 
Here, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed our most recent decision or stated any reasons for 
reconsideration of that decision. Nor does she contend that our prior decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of 
record at the time of that decision. Therefore, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion 
to reconsider and must be dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
Accordingly, the combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 0-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the BoardofT mmigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F.R. § I 003.2(b )(I), 
which states: "A motion to reconsidershallstatethe reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of factor law in the 
prior Bo a rd decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements a re fundamentally sim ilarto those 
foundat8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). and therefore the same logic applies. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16877892 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a violinist who has performed with several ensembles and orchestras. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record contains evidence that the Petitioner 
displayed her work performing at various artistic and musical venues and therefore we agree with the 
Director that she meets the display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional criteria. 1 After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal 
and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
recipients as well as an limitations on competitors. 3 The record contains a letter from the .... I _ ___, 
, a I I from the 
,.1=1 ===========--K,r-io-1-in_C_o_m_p_e_t_it-io_n_,_a_.nd an I I award certificate from the 
Latvian .... I ----=c------'r 
First, the letter froml !"declares that the Petitioner has ermission to travel with the following 
instrument: A violin, made by'---------------~---' and explains that the 
foundation "owns a large collection of musical instruments that are given to musicians on a long-term 
loan basis." The letter frornl ~s accompanied by a screenshot from the website www.tarisio.com 
providing the price history for several violins made by.__ ___ ___,.___,., and a screenshot from the 
I !website indicating the application process to receive a loaned instrument. However, the 
documentation submitted does not established that the petitioner's receipt of the aforementioned 
loaned instrument is a "nationally or internationally recognized prize or award" as required by the 
plain language of~ulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In response to the Director's request for 
evidence from thel__Jof the Petitioner's receipt of an award certificate or prize, the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence that she received an award or prize from the I I Regardless, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the criteria used in providing the Petitioner a loaned violin, which thd I 
website indicates is based onl !residence, regular concert performances, and professional 
endorsements or competition results and audio/video recording, demonstrate the national or 
international significance of that claimed recognition. 
Further, regarding the I I award certificate! the Petitioner previously submitted the 
Petitioner's award letter from the I bf the Latvian. I that states that the award is 
presented annually "to support a Latvian artist and his or her work and presentations" and is 
accompanied by $1,000 in prize money. The Petitioner farther submitted an article from the print 
publication Neatkarigas T.',1.DJ.UJ.LJ.L.4-'inas that states that 'The Latvian I I 
awarded [the Petitioner a Award in 2014 at the Proclamation Day event at thd !Church 
venue" and that the 'L__Jr-1-----L..1.LUJ.trd isl I Latvian culture award which is awarded to talented 
musicians who perform in.___~-" This sin~le article does not support the Petitioner's claim that the 
award she received from The Latvian I ~ I is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in her field. 
In addition the Petitioner rovided letters from the Latvian.__ ______ ~ and judges of the 
2012 iolin Competition in Lithuania, explaining why she received 
their awards. For instance.__ ____ _. of the Latvian I lstated t.,.,... ....................... ner was 
selected "because of her multiple performances outside of Latvia and and her 
reco~nized talent and skill in the area of Baltic music."L..._ _____ ,----,__ _ _____p a judge of the 
2012.__~--------~lviolin Competition and lecturer a.__ _ ___,University College of 
Fine Arts, explains that the competition is "part of an International Summer Masterclass program." 
She stated that the competition "involved 20 participants who had to prepare 'Summer' by Antonio 
Vivaldi," and that the Petitioner was "a winner because of her impressive stage presence, nuanced tone 
quality, clear technique and articulation."4 While I I indicated that the 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors fi-om a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
4 Although we discuss a sample letter from the judges of the 201_,_ _________ _.Violin Competition, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
masterclass attracted participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of 
competitors, without more, does not establish the requisite recognition. The record lacks evidence 
sufficient to verify that the awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herself received any 
recognition from outside the issuing organization. As discussed previously, in order to meet this 
criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. 5 
Here, the letters do not show that her awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field, nor does the record include other evidence demonstrating such recognition. Without 
evidence of the entrance requirements and restrictions, information on the number of competitors in 
the Petitioner's category, or evidence of the level ofrecognition associated with the awards, we cannot 
find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 6 On appeal, the Petitioner claims that an article and interview published on www.lsm.lv 
satisfy this criterion. 7 The record, however, does not reflect that she provided published material about 
her in professional or major trade publications or other major media, which included the title, date, 
and author. 
The Petitioner rovided a screenshot of an article dated02016, titled, .__ _________ ___, 
published on the website www.lsm.lv that announces a concert on that date 
r----,_M_u_s-eu_Jm inl I Latvia by a duo clmpryed of the Petitioner and flutistD 
'----~ The article relates that the concert celebrates the anniversary of the I ts restoration 
and will include Latvian chamber music and works from the classical repertoire. It provides 
background information for the Petitioner] I and I I Here, this screenshot is 
about the concert rather than about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We also 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
7 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on articles published in the print publications 
Neatkarigas Tukuma Zinas, LAIKS, Draugas, Latvija Amerika, and Latvijas Avize, and on the websites www.delfi.lv, 
www.grani.lv, www.classical-scene.com. www.muzikaspasuale.lv, www.telegram.com, www.daugavpilszinas.lv, 
www.bostonirish.com. www.ntz.lv. www.muzeji.lv, www.kultura.daugavpils.lv, and www.schmopera.com. On appeal, 
the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the two published materials mentioned above and does not address these other 
published materials. 
4 
note the screenshot does not include the "author of the material," as required by the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot of a video datedl 12017, from D posted on the 
website www.lsm.lv. The Petitioner claims that the video reflected an interview of her broadcasted 
on the Latvian! I Although the Petitioner provided a transcription of the video, it 
ublished material about her relating to her work. Rather, the video is about the 
new~LLU,~....J.U..lo.!..ii...u.u.LLL __ ~~~-----,-J performed by the Petitioner, pianist! l 
and.__ ________ __, coverrg comjositions by Latvian composers and works from~ 
classical repertoire and premiering on 2017, a~ I the Petitioner andLJ I lare quoted discussing the composition of the program. Again, articles that are not about a 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR­
RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about 
the actor). 
In addition, the record does not establish that www.lsm.lv or c=J' qualify as major trade media or 
other major media. The Petitioner provided a screenshot of an article from the website of Lsm.lv that 
provides that it "is the portal of Latvian Television and Latvian radio I I' and that 
.__ ______ __,~ "[a]n audio and video content player for Latvian Radio and Television, which 
allows passive consumption of social media content." A screenshot of a press release from the website 
www.latvijasradio.lsm.lv indicates that Latvian Radj·a is the "market leader a~,mg Latvian 
broadcasters ... according to the latest winter-spring._ ____________ _.J survey data." 
USCIS need not rely solely on self-serving assertions. 8 Even if we were to accept the information 
contained in the press release, it does not does not include the comparative circulation data necessary to 
establish that it qualifies as major media in Latvia. Further, although the record contains an article from 
the website www.iauto.lv that indicates that Ism.Iv was among the top 10 most visited news portals in 
Latvia among "the websites that participated in the..._ _____ __,study in September 2017 ," with 
381,946 monthly visitors,"9 the Petitioner did not show the significance of that one-month visitor 
statistic and how such data reflects status as a major medium.10 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classtfication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. The record supports this finding. 
8 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding 
that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving asseitions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). 
9 Although the translated heading of the relevant chart indicates that this figure relates to daily visitors the translated body 
of the article states the figures relate to monthly visitors. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
The record includes a letter from I I choir conductor and music director at the Latvian I and co-founder with the Petitioner of the 1----,_l _w_h_i_c_h_s_h_e_d_e_s_c-ri_b...,es as monthly concerts at that church featur .... in_g_"_d-is-ti_n_g_m __ s-h-ed_s_o-lo-is-t-s, .... 
chamber music groups and bands," for which the Petitioner is also the artistic director. She asserts 
that the Petitioner's responsibilities as artistic director o~ I include "judging performers' talent in 
order to select them for specific performances," and claims that the Petitioner "critiques ... the actual 
performers who she selects to perform each piece." She further provides "[the Petitioner] is 
responsible for auditioning, selecting, inviting, and corresponding with all performers. She has 
ultimate discretion over which artists are selected to perform in the concert series." 
The record also includes screen shots of thel linquiry form on Google that indicates it provides 
"a short intake form" for interested individuals and ensembles to submit, which "will help I I 
curators learn about you and best place you within our concert series." The intake form requests such 
information as ensemble~ musical geme, social media links, performance bio, and preferred 
month of the 2018-2019 L__J The form indicates that "[i]f there is information requested below 
that you don't have, leave the section blank," and instructs that the completed form should be emailed 
to the Petitioner. 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence demonstrating 
that the petitioner has participated as "a judge of the work of others." The judging activities should be 
clearly described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence should demonstrate whose 
work and what type of work the individual judged. In this case, the Petitioner has not done so. Here, 
the evidence does not demonstrate sufficiently that in the performance of her role as artistic director the 
Petitioner actually judged the musical work of the artists in making final selections for the concert series, 
rather than, for example, reviewing qualifications as set forth in the intake sheet, or other rneral 
requests for inf°~tjon, For rample, in response to an e-mail request datedl 2019, 
from musician _ for "information about your selection process for performers for you 
concert series," the Petitioner responded onl I 2019 that "[ w ]e have a spot in March if 
you are available . . . . " Here, the record does not document sufficiently the Petitioner 's judging 
activities forl I 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785 (E.D. La.), ajj'd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. Further, we 
find that, although the Petitioner met the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), she did not 
establish that she meets the criteria relating to nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
published materials, or judging. We acknowledge that the Petitioner claims eligibility under one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles with distinguished organizations or 
establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, as the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this remaining 
criterion. 11 In addition, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17024019 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an art director who was employed by .__ _________ ~in 0-1 
nonimmigrant status at the time the petition was filed. The record reflects that he previously owned 
and operated his own companyll I which provided graphic design 
and related services to clients in .__ ___ _. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of these ten criteria, relating 
to display of his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases, leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, and commercial success in the arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii) and (x). 
The Director's decision briefly addresses some elements of the regulatory criteria related to display 
and leading or critical roles, but does not specifically discuss the evidence submitted in support of 
these criteria or why such evidence was insufficient to satisfy the requirements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). For example, with respect to the leading or critical roles criterion, the 
analysis is limited to the following: 
The plain language requires the organization or establishments to have a distinguished 
reputation. Webster's online dictionary defines distinguished as 1: marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence and 2: befitting an eminent person .... The 
evidence only provides general information and does not contain information about any 
awards, recognition or achievements garnered by the organization or establishment or 
otherwise demonstrate that the organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. 
It is unclear to which "organization or establishment" the decision refers because the decision does 
not mention the evidence the Petitioner provided, which included letters and supporting documentation 
2 
from more than half a dozen organizations. The Director also does not address whether the Petitioner 
established that any of his roles were leading or critical, and if not, why the submitted reference letters 
from prior clients and employers were insufficient to meet his burden of proof. The Director's 
discussion of the display criterion is similarly lacking a discussion of the Petitioner's evidence and his 
explanations as to how his evidence demonstrates eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). Further, although the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) prior to issuing 
the denial, the decision does not mention the evidence the Petitioner provided with his RFE response. 
Finally, neither the decision nor the RFE acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he could satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which relates to commercial success in the performing arts, and 
therefore does not include any acknowledgement or analysis of this third claimed evidentiary criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to explain why the evidence submitted in 
support of the petition was either disregarded or deemed to be deficient. For the reasons noted above, 
we agree with this contention. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. The Director is instructed to review 
the Petitioner's supp01iing letters and evidence submitted under all claimed initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On remand, the Director may also request any additional evidence 
deemed warranted and should allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence in support of his petition 
within a reasonable period of time. 
If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision 
should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entiy of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16025413 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cybersecurity firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director dismissed both 
motions. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary worked as an applications engineer forl I in India before earning a master's degree 
atl I university. The Petitioner hired him in 2014, first as a chief software architect and, since 
2018, as a chief scientist. 
The Director initially denied the petition in March 2020. The Petitioner filed its combined motion in May 
2020, and the Director dismissed both motions in August 2020. The matter on appeal before us is the 
August 2020 motion dismissal, not the March 2020 denial of the underlying petition. In the August 2020 
decision, the Director did not affirm the prior denial. Rather, the Director concluded that the motion did 
not meet the applicable requirements. Therefore, the question before us on appeal is whether the Director 
erred in dismissing the motion. Although the March 2020 denial notice is not before us, we will refer to 
portions of that decision for context. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary satisfied six of ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
2 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to meet the criteria numbered 
(iv), (v), and (vi), but not the other three claimed criteria. In a final merits determination, the Director 
cited four grounds, discussed below, for concluding that the Petitioner had not established that the 
Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner addressed each of 
these grounds in the motion to reopen. 
1. Membership in Associations 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) calls for documentation of a beneficiary's membership in 
associations in the field, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner initially asserted 
that the Beneficiary meets this requirement as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The Director discussed this membership under the individual criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but also asserted that, given the regulation's wording, the regulations were also 
relevant at the final merits determination. The Director concluded that the membership requirements do 
not reflect sustained national or international acclaim. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserted: "Senior membership is regarded as a significant achievement because 
less than 2% of the overall IEEE members are elevated to the senior member status globally each year." 
The record shows that senior member status in the IEEE requires "at least ten years" "in professional 
practice," with "significant performance over ... at least five of those years." As the Director noted, there 
is a higher level of membership, "Fellow." IEEE members can apply for senior member status, but fellow 
status is "conferred by the Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of 
accomplishments" that "have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, 
science and technology." The Director concluded that fellow status is more indicative of acclaim than 
senior membership in the IEEE. 
Also on motion, the Petitioner submitted new evidence of the Beneficiary's membership in Sigma Xi, 
described as a "Scientific Research Honor Society." The membership certificate indicates that the 
Beneficiary "was duly elected ... in the year 2020." Sigma Xi's bylaws require "noteworthy achievement 
as an original investigator in a field of pure or applied science," but do not specify the nature of such 
achievement beyond stating that the evidence can take the form of "publications, patents, written reports 
or a thesis or dissertation." 
In dismissing the motion, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary's 
membership in either IEEE or Sigma Xi meets the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that "[l]ess than 2% of the overall IEEE members are 
elevated to the senior member status globally each year," and that a panel reviews applications for senior 
membership, but this information does not establish that IEEE senior membership meets the requirements 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), or -more relevant to a final merits determination -that senior member 
status either results from, or results in, sustained national or international acclaim. The "2%" figure does 
3 
not establish that those promoted to senior member status are in the top 2% of the field; requirements 
such as ten years of experience restrict eligibility in ways unrelated to achievement or recognition. 
The Petitioner also repeats the assertion that Sigma Xi "induct[ ed the Beneficiary] as a full member 
2020." Because this induction took place after the petition's December 2019 filing date, this new 
evidence cannot establish eligibility as of the petition's filing date as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, the Petitioner does not establish that Sigma Xi's requirement of"noteworthy achievement" equates 
to the "outstanding achievements" demanded by the regulation. 
The Petitioner states that the IEEE "is the world's largest technical professional society" and "Sigma Xi 
is the world's largest scientific honor society," but the large size of these associations implicitly argues 
against restrictive membership requirements. 
The Director concluded that the Beneficiary's memberships in Sigma Xi and the IEEE do not establish 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field. For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner has not overcome this conclusion on appeal. 
2. Reviewing and Judging 
In the March 2020 denial decision, the Director acknowledged that the Beneficiary's "participation in 
Technical Program Committees, Panels and Presentations" technically satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), pertaining to judging the work of others, but the Director concluded that this activity 
was "very limited," and that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary had received invitations to 
judge "on the basis of his extraordinary ability." 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted invitations to review manuscripts submitted for publication in various 
journals. In dismissing the motion, the Director noted that these invitations took place after the petition's 
December 2019 filing date. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Beneficiary was "invited to participate in research panels at 
international conferences and workshops." The Petitioner lists four such panels that occurred between 
201 7 and 2019. In the context of the final merits determination, the key question is whether the 
conference organizers invited the Beneficiary to participate in the panels owing to his acclaim in the field, 
rather than because he cleared a substantially lower threshold such as subject matter expertise. The 
Petitioner cites no evidence on appeal that answers this question. 
The Petitioner has not overcome, or directly addressed, the Director's conclusions from the August 2020 
decision dismissing the motion. 
3. Scholarly Articles 
In the March 2020 denial notice, the Director concluded that the Beneficiary's scholarly writings meet 
the technical requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but that the Petitioner did not establish that those 
articles had contributed to sustained acclaim. The Director stated that the Beneficiary's published work 
took the form of a small number of minimally cited conference proceedings and patents, rather than 
articles "in reputed national or international scientific journals." 
4 
On motion, the Petitioner showed that some of the Beneficiary's articles appeared in journals prior to the 
filing date. The Petitioner also submitted patent filings from 2020. The Petitioner stated that "the 
beneficiary's patents have been cited 39 times as of May 2020," but did not establish that this citation rate 
demonstrates sustained acclaim or otherwise indicates a commensurate degree of influence in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserted that the Beneficiary "has been ... publishing detailed technical reports" from 
his work "with some of the world's largest communication companies." We note that the cover pages of 
these reports in the record are marked "CONFIDENTIAL -RESTRICTED ACCESS," with the 
instruction that they "shall not be disclosed outside of' the clients that commissioned the reports. Because 
publication entails dissemination, confidential reports do not qualify as published scholarly articles. 
In the August 2020 decision dismissing the motion, the Director noted that some of the motion evidence 
relates to a period after the filing of the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "did not consider the Journal publications and wrongly 
[asserted that] no articles were published in the international journals." The Petitioner discusses two 
journal articles and a patent published prior to the filing date. 
The Petitioner is correct that the Director's August 2020 decision did not address the Petitioner's pre­
filing publications. Nevertheless, it remains that, in the March 2020 decision, the Director acknowledged 
that"[ t ]he beneficiary did meet this criterion" for the purposes of the initial evidentiary requirements. For 
the final merits determination, the issue is not whether the Beneficiary's articles exist, but whether the 
industry's response to those articles amounts to sustained acclaim placing him at the top of the field. The 
Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary has produced published work, and unpublished confidential 
reports for clients, but the existence of such material does not establish acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not establish that its motion to reopen established that acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not overcome this issue on appeal. 
4. Leading or critical roles 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) calls for evidence that the individual has performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. In the March 
2020 denial, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established the distinguished reputations 
of the organizations for which the Beneficiary had performed in such roles. Apart from not satisfying the 
requirements of the criterion, the Director stated: 'This is also a contributing factor to conclude that the 
beneficiary did not meet the final merits determination." 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted letters from various clients, and stated that these client letters 
establish the Petitioner's distinguished reputation. In dismissing the motion, the Director acknowledged 
these letters but did not state any conclusions regarding them. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director did not give due consideration to the letters. Therefore, we will discuss them below. 
In separate letters, officials atl t I ] and I I each stated that the Petitioner "is 
an industry recognized cybersecurity research and analysis organization." Officials atl ., I ::i.nd 
5 
I I each stated that the Petitioner "is an industry recognized cybersecurity research and analysis 
firm." An official o-A I ,-tated that the Petitioner "is a distinrished cybersecurity research and 
analysis company with industry recognition," while an official of 1 • I 
I I stated that the Petitioner "is a recognized cybersecurity and cyber risk services organization." 
Other clients described the services that the Petitioner performed for them but did not directly address the 
company's reputation. 
Vague, general references to the Petitioner's reputation do not suffice to establish a distinguished 
reputation. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's 
burden of proof FedinBros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 
41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
We emphasize that, in the initial March 2020 denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria; the denial resulted from the final merits determination. 
The argument that the Petitioner satisfied a fourth initial criterion would not establish acclaim in the final 
merits determination. 
In the context of the Beneficiary's acclaim, it is significant that the letters submitted on motion focused 
on the services that the Petitioner provided. Some letters did not mention the Beneficiary at all; others 
did so only to identify him as a member or leader of the team providing those services. The following 
examples illustrate the point: 
• I I "Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] security team has been working 
with our security and architecture teams to identify and mitigate platform security issues." • I l"Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] team has been working closely with our 
security and architecture teams to secure our platform services." • I I "Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] team has worked closely with our product 
engineering team in certifying data security and compliance ofl lcloud-based information 
services." 
These letters amount to testimonials from satisfied clients; they do not show that the Beneficiary has 
earned sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Director reached erroneous conclusions 
with respect to the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In its motion to reconsider, the Petitioner stated: "When considering all the newly submitted evidence 
along with what was previously submitted, we believe that [the Beneficiary] ... has a degree of expertise 
significantly above that ordinarily encountered in the sciences." A motion to reconsider must establish 
that the prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. See 
6 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, "newly submitted evidence" cannot support a motion to reconsider, 
and is properly considered, instead, in the context of a motion to reopen ( already addressed above). 
In the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner alleged no specific error in the March 2020 denial notice except 
to note that the Director referred to I I University" instead of I I University." The 
Petitioner acknowledged: "we believe that [the Director] just made a typographical error," rather than a 
substantive error that affected the outcome of the decision. 
Apart from the misspelling of I , I' the Petitioner contended more generally that the Director did 
not "explain the specific reasons" for the denial. The Director, however, devoted two full pages of the 
March 2020 decision to the final merits determination (not counting the space devoted to the initial 
evidentiary criteria). The Petitioner tailored its motion to reopen to several of the points the Director 
raised in that discussion ( and which we discussed above). The record does not support the Petitioner's 
claim on motion that the March 2020 decision lacked "specific reasons" for the denial. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the evidence submitted in the motion to reopen. The Petitioner does 
not establish that the Director should have granted the concurrent, but procedurally separate, motion to 
reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not shown that the Director should have granted its motions to 
reopen and reconsider. Because the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's August 2020 decision 
dismissing those motions, we will not directly address the March 2020 denial or the merits of the 
underlying petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16066129 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 18, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chemical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned ~raduate degrees at the State University 
2019, he has worked atl I, in 0-1 nonimm~i_g_ra_n_t-st_a_tu_s __ 1,-------~ Since 
The Petitioner states that 
his work entails "the develo ment of ' reen ' organic compounds 
used widely in th ~-----------~ products industries." His title a~ l"Product 
Manager, R&D Water Quality." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (v). The Petitioner does not contest 
the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (iii), and therefore we consider that issue 
to be abandoned. 2 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the record of proceeding 
for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the 
same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
2 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied a third regulatory criterion, as 
explained below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had made original contributions, but 
concluded that the Petitioner had not shown them to be of major significance in the field. The Petitioner's 
principal argument on appeal is that the Director did not address the Petitioner's response to a request for 
evidence (RFE). The bulk of the appellate brief comprises lengthy quotations from the RFE response. 
The Petitioner states: "It is unclear as to whether Petitioner's 90+ page RFE response was overlooked or 
simply ignored as no comprehensive commentary or analysis is made of the evidence presented therein 
within the denial notice." In the denial notice, the Director quoted, albeit briefly, from eight letters in the 
RFE response, and described the other materials submitted (specifically "an updated citation summary 
[ and] copies of review articles"). These mentions, although not "comprehensive," refute the claim that 
the Director "overlooked or simply ignored" the RFE response. 
Nevertheless, the record shows the significance of the Petitioner's contributions in the area of simplified 
.__ ___ ___.I processes which significantly improved the efficiency of the process while eliminatingLJ 
that otherwise contaminatq..,___,,----,-----,-,--,---.,...IProducts for which purity is an important priority. We will 
not repeat the highly technical details here, but the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that some of his contributions have major significance in the field. 
Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence suffices to meet three initial criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The satisfaction of three regulatory criteria does not facially establish sustained national or 
international acclaim, because an individual can satisfy some of those criteria in a manner that neither 
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
reflects prior acclaim nor results in subsequent acclaim. For example, the publication of scholarly 
articles, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), is not a privilege reserved for top researchers. 
Rather, it appears to be routine and expected in many academic disciplines. 
Likewise, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is broad enough to encompass a wide range of 
activities that involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, 
sustained acclaim in the field. Several of the Petitioner's judging activities involve evaluating 
submissions to symposia a~ I Other activities involve reviewing the work of candidates for 
graduate degrees, an activity requiring some level of expertise but which, in the aggregate, is routine 
at countless universities that grant such degrees. Finally, the Petitioner submits a copy of an email 
message inviting him to serve as a reviewer on the editorial board of Science Journal of Chemistry. 
This message does not show that he actually participated as a judge, as the regulation requires; it is 
only an invitation to do so in the future. Furthermore, the record does not establish the reputation of 
the journal or show that its editorial board consists exclusively of acclaimed individuals at the top of 
the field. 
Several of the letters in the record emphasize the Petitioner's citation history. At the time of filing the 
petition, the Petitioner had 157 citations and an h-index of 6, meaning six of his articles had been cited 
at least six times each. The number of citations increased by the time the Petitioner responded to the 
RFE, at which time the Petitioner's former graduate advisor atl lstated: "A citation number 
of 1 78 is an imposing number for a researcher within four years of being a doctor, especially 
considering that [the Petitioner] does not work as a Professor at a University."! • l's former dean 
of the Chemistry faculty states that the Petitioner has amassed "a remarkable [citation] record for a 
researcher of his age." The regulations limit eligibility to the small percentage at the very top of the 
field as a whole, rather than a subset of the field that excludes the most accomplished and experienced 
individuals working in that field. 
The Petitioner's graduate advisor also states: "The impressively high quality of [the Petitioner's] work 
led to the nomination of his thesis as the Best Thesis of the Year 2016 in the field of Chemical 
Engineering." He does not cite any corroborating evidence, or elaborate as to who nominated the 
thesis or the scope of the honor ( e.g., whether consideration was field-wide, or limited to theses at I I. Without this information, the assertion that the Petitioner was nominated for a student-level 
prize that he apparently did not receive is of very limited value in this proceeding. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that "the individuals providing testimony included highly esteemed 
internationally renowned scientists. . . . Surely the information offered by such distinguished 
individuals deserves a more thorough assessment." This is a valid observation as far as it goes, but at 
the same time, it cannot suffice for the Petitioner to show the endorsement of "distinguished 
individuals"; he must show that he has risen to the highest level of distinction himself. 
To establish their credentials, these individuals provide various statistics that invite comparison with 
the Petitioner's own achievements. For instance, the aforementioned professor atl lstates: 
"The international impact of my work can be attested by my 45 h index and over 8,750 citations."D I I a senior scientific researcher at the~--------------~ in I I Russia, states: "I have published over 302 scientific papers, 17 books and 7 patents; my 
publications have generated 9,211 citations." We would not expect a young researcher to have 
4 
produced the same quantity of articles as a researcher with decades of experience, but the burden is on 
the Petitioner to establish that he has reached the highest levels of recognition in the field regardless 
of age or experience. 
The statute requires "extensive documentation" of sustained acclaim. In this case, the Petitioner relies 
heavily on letters from individuals who describe the Petitioner's work and assert that it has won him 
recognition in the field. Almost all of these individuals have demonstrable ties to the Petitioner, mostly 
through I I Their statements are not first-hand evidence that the Petitioner has earned 
recognition beyond those who have not worked with him. 
An individual who has not worked with the Petitioner is a neurof harmacologist 
who is "currently serving as Founding President ." _ ladds 
that he "was credited with coining the term in 199 5." We note that a 
printout from Wikipedia accompanie ~--~s letter, presumably to est,b)isb bis crrentials. The 
Wikipedia printout is dated July 20, 2020, three days before the date of1 ..... ___ _._ letter, and it 
therefore appears thatl I supplied this printout himself The printout reads, in part: 
"";:I ===.:lo::.:r..:.iiginated the term -----------,,--r-"' ___ ' There is no consensus among 
.... 1 ---~I researchers that empirical evidence exists to justify such a concept. 
I ~ ~ ~ is not a medically recognized disorder: The diagnostic 
validity of LJhas not been recognized by thd !Association in 
its diagnostic manual, th~ I 
'Journal of Reward f eficiencv '\vndrome m1J ~tion 
Science and founded the com an that ublishes it,
1 __ ----,----,----,,-.,......,.....,..,..---,-----='-- l__Jwas 
also editor-in-chief of 's Journal o Addiction Research & 
Therapy (]ART) from 2013 to 2015. Both,___ ______ __.andl I 
are ... widely regarded as predatory open-access publishers. 
User-edited websites such as Wikipedia are not necessarily authoritative; there are no assurances about 
the reliability of its content. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F .3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). N evertheles~ the I 
Petitioner's voluntary submission of this printout, ostensibly as supporting evidence to establis 
LJ's credibility and authority, raises questions that the record does not answer. 
.__ ____ _.Is letter also raises questions.4 He asserts that one factor in the Petitioner's favor is the 
"high ... quantity of [the Petitioner's] publications (~50 publications)," but a Google Scholar printout 
4 An accompanying biographical sketch oti._ ___ _.l concludes with the following passage: 
5 
in the record identifies fewer than 20 scholarly writings by the Petitioner, including journal articles, 
conference presentations, patents, and graduate theses. 
____ ___,,,I's letter also includes this passage: "In 2017, I was on the short list of nominees for the 
~---~lin Chemistry." To support this last claim, the Petitioner submits a copy of an article from 
Che~World in which various third-party institutions speculated about possible winners of the 
2017L__J The record contains no evidence thatl I was formally nominated for the I I 
and no statement from anyone who claims to have nominated! I Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner asserts on appeal that we should give substantial weight to this letter because it is from "a I I nominee." 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as 
expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS 
is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. 
The submission of letters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of 
eligibility. Id. USCIS may even give less weight to an opinion that is not corroborated or is in any 
way questionable. Id. 
For the above reasons, while the Petitioner has been involved in important research, he has not 
established significant recognition beyond those who have worked with him at I I and 
elsewhere. Issues with some of the submitted letters, discussed above, diminish their evidentiary 
weight. The record does not establish that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
This passage appears to be an instmction as to how third parties should forma~ Is digitally reproduced signature 
when inserting it into a deurneor w: QQTP that the submitted letter does not conform to these instmctions, as it shows the 
double signature in both ]characters. (The digital signatures on the letter appear to match, exactly, the 
signatures on the biographical sketch.) These circumstances raise qrstions abouf the origin and provenance of the letter, 
which diminish its evidentiary weight. If the instmctions come from . .__ ___ _.himselt: then the letter's deviation from 
those instmctions suogests that someone other thanl , I added the signature to the letter, in which case it is not 
certain tb:a~ : I has seen or otherwise approved the letter. If the instructions are from some other source, then the 
question arises as to why an unnamed third party is in a position to issue instructions as to how to digitally sign letters on I ~ behalf. 
6 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The evidence regarding the Petitioner's reputation is heavily concentrated 
at I [ rather than indicating acclaim throughout the field. As noted above, some of the 
Petitioner's evidence raises questions which diminish the weight we afford that evidence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7880530 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 20, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) § 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This classification makes 
visas available to foreign nationals who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had neither demonstrated his receipt of a major 
internationally recognized award nor met three of the ten evidentiary criteria, as required. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider the Director's decision. 
Both motions were subsequently dismissed. The Petitioner then appealed the Director's dismissal of 
these motions to us. During the adjudication of the Petitioner's appeal, we received information that 
compromised the credibility of his claims. Accordingly , on March 23, 2021, we issued a notice of 
intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal. In response, we received a letter from counsel dated March 30, 
2021, requesting that the Petitioner's appeal be withdrawn. The Petitioner's request to withdraw the 
appeal is granted; however, notwithstanding the withdrawal of this appeal, we will enter a separate 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. REQUESTFOR WITHDRAWAL OF THE APPEAL 
As noted above, we issued a NOID, notifying the Petitioner of adverse findings outside the record of 
proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. He did not acknowledge, 
discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in his withdrawal request. 
A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(6); Matter of Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. 9 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, the Petitioner's request will be granted and the appeal will 
be dismissed based on that withdrawal. 
III. MATERIAL MISRESPRESENTA TION 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about 
his membership in the China Beverage Industry Association (CBIA), which was material to the 
adjudication of the petition. 
A. Evidence of Record 
The Petitioner claimed to be an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of business as a wine expert. 
In relevant part, the Petitioner asserted his eligibility for the classification sought based upon the regulatoiy 
criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which permits a petitioner to submit evidence of his "membership in 
associations in the field ... which require outstanding achievements of their members." The Petitioner claimed 
that he satisfied this criterion through membership in multiple organizations, one of which was the China 
Beverage Industry Association (CBIA). 1 To demonstrate this, he submitted a Chinese language certificate 
1 The Petitioner also claimed eligibility through his memberships in the China National Food Industry Association , China 
2 
allegedly from CBIA and accompanying English language translation of that certificate identifying him as 
"Senior Member." The Petitioner also provided Chinese language screenshots from the website 
www.chinabeverage.org and English language translations of these documents titled "Introduction of [CBIA]," 
"Articles of [CBIA]," and "Oraauizational Structure of [CBIA]," and screenshots from www.famous-
entrepreneurs.com abou~ [ and from www.bloomberg.com abou~ I 
However, as we advised the Petitioner in our NOID, an overseas investigation by USCIS revealed 
derogatory information relating to the certificate and translations of the CBIA articles to establish his 
membership. As part of this investigation, a USCIS officer contacted the CBIA's Director of 
Membership to verify the authenticity of the membership certificate provided with the instant petition. 
The Director of Membership stated that members of CBIA are names of businesses, and that to her 
knowledge, there has never been a "Senior Member" membership category. The investigating officer 
then provided the Director of Membership a copy of the membership certificate in the record. Upon 
review of this certificate, the Director of Membership reiterated that she is unaware of CBIA issuing 
certificates in the category of "Senior Member." She further advised that alll I ~ertificates are 
issued with CBIA 's official seal and that this ce1tificate does not contain said seal. 
The investigating officer also reviewed the CBIA website screenshots and translations provided by the 
Petitioner and dete1mined that the translation for "A1ticle 12. Senior Membership C1iteria" does not 
accurately reflect what the website says. The investigating officer advised that, upon careful review of 
the website pages provided, there are no other sections entitled "Senior Membership Criteria" nor do any 
other sections refer to a "Senior Member." The officer stated that Article 7 of the provided webpage 
printout indicates that there are only two types of memberships: "Ordinary Member" and "Associate 
Member," and that it appears this section was omitted from the accompanying translation. 
In our NOID, we further noted that the Petitioner provided this evidence with a previous petition I I to establish his membership in CBIA. 2 Accordingly we notified the Petitioner 
that it appeared he had repeatedly submitted fraudulent documents and incomplete translations to 
establish eligibility for classification as an individual of exceptional ability. 
Our NOID gave the Petitioner an oppmtunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 8 
C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that the withdrawal of his appeal would not 
prevent a finding of willful material misrepresentation. The Petitioner responded to our NOID with a 
request to withdraw the appeal but did not address the above-described adverse findings in any way. 
B. Analysis 
The facts and evidence presented in the instant matter wan-ant a finding of willful misrepresentation 
of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
National Association for Liquor Spirits Circulation, the China General Chamber of Commerce, the China Green Ribbon 
Care Association, and thl I Wine & Spirits Association. 
2 The record reflects that this petition was initially approved by the Director, but then revoked as it was approved in error 
and the Petitioner had not established eligibility for the benefit sought. In addition to revoking the approval of the petition, 
the Director entered a finding of willful misrepresentation. In a subsequently filed appealofthatdecision, we upheld the 
Director's decision and the willful misrepresentation finding. 
3 
A misrepresentation is an asse1iion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals, a material misrepresentation requires that the 
individual willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of obtaining 
an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 288, 
289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished from 
accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See Matter ofTijam, 22 
I&N Dec. 408,425 (BIA 1998); Matter ofHea(v and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To 
be considered material, the misrepresentation must be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry 
which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which might well have resulted m a proper 
dete1mination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 536, 537 (BIA 1980). 
USCIS will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits evidence which contains false information. 
In general, a few e1rnrs or minor discrepancies are not reason to question the credibility of a foreign 
national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. U.S., 345 F.3d 683, 
694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes serious errors and discrepancies, and the 
petitioner does not resolve those e1rnrs and discrepancies given the opportunity to rebut or explain, 
then the inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that the claims stated in the petition are not true. 
See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988). 
In this case, the discrepancies in the documents relating to the petition constitute substantial and 
probative evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) permits a petitioner to submit evidence 
of his "membership in associations in the field ... which require outstanding achievements of their 
members." The Petitioner submitted a ce1iificate for CBIA identifying him as a member; however, an 
overseas investigation determined that this organization does not admit individuals as members. This 
investigation also revealed that official CBIA membership certificates include the association's 
official seal, and that the submitted ce1iificate lacked this seal. Moreover, the investigating officer 
determined that the translations of the CBIA articles of membership submitted by the Petitioner were 
altered. In this case, these discrepancies and errors lead us to conclude that the evidence of the 
Petitioner's membership in CBIA, which is material to his eligibility as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability," is neither true nor credible. 
When given an oppmiunity to rebut these findings, the Petitioner offered no rebuttal or explanation 
for the inconsistencies. Instead, he withdrew the appeal. If the Petitioner had not withdrawn the 
appeal, we would have dismissed the appeal based, in part, on these misrepresentations. See Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. at 9; see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation. 
4 
Section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C), provides: 
Misrepresentation -(i) In general -Any alien who, by fraud or willfully 
misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to procure or has 
procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other 
benefit provided under this Act is inadmissible. 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See Matter of M-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter of L-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 1961); Ka; Hing Hu;, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
First, with the instant petition, and with a prior petition, the Petitioner submitted documents and altered 
translations intended to establish his membership in CBIA and therefore his eligibility for the 
regulatmy criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner's submission of these falsified 
documents in support of his immigrant visa petition constitutes a false representation to a government 
official. 
Second, the Petitioner willfully made the misrepresentation. The Petitioner signed the Fmm I-140, 
certifying under penalty of perjury that his petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and 
conect. See section 287(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(b); see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(2). More specifically, the signature portion of Form I-140, at part 8, required the Petitioner 
to make the following affirmation: "I certify, under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United 
States of Ame1ica, that this petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and con-ect." On 
the basis of this affirmation, made under penalty of perjury, we conclude that the Petitioner willfully 
and knowingly made the misrepresentations. 
Third, the evidence is material to the Petitioner's eligibility. To be considered material, a false 
statement must be shown to have been predictably capable of affecting the decision of the decision­
making body. Kungys v. U.S., 485 U.S. 759 (1988). In the context of a visa petition, a misrepresented 
fact is mate1ial if the misrepresentation cut off a line of inquity which is relevant to the eligibility 
criteria and that inquiry might well have resulted in the denial of the visa petition. See Ng, 17 I&N 
Dec. at 537. Here, the misrepresentations regarding his memberships relate to the regulatory criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, they are mate1ial to his eligibility. 
Accordingly, by filing the instant petition, making false representations, and submitting altered 
translations, the Petitioner has sought to procure a benefit provided under the Act through a willful 
misrepresentation of material facts. This finding of willful material misrepresentation shall be 
considered in any future proceeding where admissibility is an issue. See section 212(a)(6)(C) of the 
Act. Furthe1more, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(15) provides: "Withdrawal or denial due to 
abandonment shall not itself affect the new proceeding; but the facts and circumstances sunounding 
the prior application or petition shall otherwise be material to the new application or petition." 
5 
IV. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner withdrew his appeal, we find that he made a willful misrepresentation of 
mate1ial facts. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16877117 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a human resources and labor researcher and professor, seeks classification as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment since 2012 as an associate professor of business administration 
atl I University, Taiwan. The record reflects that she received her Ph.D. in human resource 
management froml I University, Taiwan in 2008. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that she has reviewed manuscripts 
for the International Journal of Information Management and served as a thesis examiner. In addition, 
the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional evidentiary criteria, relating to 
nationally or internationally recognized awards, published materials in major media, original 
contributions, and high salary.1 After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
1 We note that the Director detennined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the membership in 
associations criterion at 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this 
issue on appeal and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
as any limitations on competitors. 3 The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on her receipt of 
several awards for her academic research and teaching as follows: 
• 2019 Academic Research Award from th .__ ____________ __, 
Foundation for ' research results 
• 2019 I I University Academic Research Committee .__ __________ ____, 
Scholarship rant 
• 2019 University for having instructed 3rd place team in the ,, 
• 2018 '-------~~--------~-----' Academic Research Award for 
research results that were '------~------.-' 
• 201 7 Academic Research Committee of.__ __ ~ 
Scholarship grant 
• 2017 Jib::======='-~ .:.F.:::..oun==d=a=ti.:::..on:::....:.:en:::d:.:o:....:.w:...:m::e::n:.:t.=I ===::::;--:____.I Award 
• 201 Academic Research A ward for 
research results that were 
• 20131 I University.__O_ft_i-ce_o_f_R_e_s-ea_r_c_h_D~evelopment .__ __________ ____. 
Schy..,.u. ............ ..........a..........,_t 
• 201 Award fro ~~'--,======================="-, 
• 2012.__ __ ~University Office of Research Development '--------------' Scholarshi rant 
• 2011 niversity Office of Research Affairs & International Cooperation I 
fundin award .__ __ ____. 
• 2011 Research A ward for the a er titled 
L_ ______________ __,_........_........_ .......... ""t-',000 grant 
• 2011 Research A ward for the conference a er Lr------------------'-----------------'----'-~ 
L------1""---------------"'l------__J' and NT$2,000 grant 
• 200 ..,._ ________________ .............,Research Award for 1._ ______ ~ 
• 2009 Academic Research Reward for the 
conference presentation, 1 I I I for 
NT$5,000. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter addressed to her from theLI -------------r-=I._T=h=e=-, 
letter advises the Petitioner that her submission to its 2013 annual meetin er titled '._I ___ _.I 
'------------------------------------' 'was judged 
"one of the best accepted papers in our program," and invites her to revise and resubmit her paper for 
publication in the i ..... 0 " , IMeeting." Although screenshots from 
the AOM website indicate it gives Publication Awards to "journal articles that were published in the 
3 
previous year in each of the Academy's six journals," the aforementioned letter does not state that the 
Petitioner won an award or prize at the conference or otherwise. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's academic research and teaching awards, above, the record reflects 
information from thel I indicating that the Academic 
Research A ward was established "in order to improve teaching quality and promote higher education," 
and that it is given to "full-time professors who have been teaching at the department of business 
administration with the most recent 3-year publications as the examining standard." Regarding the I I A ward, a screenshot of documentation from the 
website www.senate.universit ofcalifornia.edu provides that the award was established b~ 
California-based in memory ofi I a former University of Californial__J I I professor who taught at University. The stated purpose of the award, in relevant 
part, is to "[a]ssist University o faculty members to teach, study, and research at American 
institutions of higher learning, and ... aid~--~University in its educational ro rams otherwise." 
The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate that either a I I Academic Research Award or a========================================-A_w_a-rd__, 
is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence by the overall field. 4 
As it pertains to the aforementioned Best Paper Award from the I I the record does not conta._i_n_i_n_fo_rm--at_i_o_n_a_b_o_u_t_t_h_e_n_a_t-io_n_a_l_o__.r 
international recognition of the award and issuing organization. The Petitioner did not submit 
secondary evidence, such as news articles or letters from the sponsoring organization, documenting 
the prestige associated with this award that would indicate national or international recognition as an 
award for excellence in her field. The documentation submitted does include the criteria used to select 
the best paper submitted to the conference. The Petitioner has not provided any evidence to indicate 
that this award conveys national or international recognition or that the award recognizes excellence 
within the field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she satisfies this criterion based on submitted copies of online articles 
from Chinese publications. The articles were published by United Daily News (www.money.udn.com, 
citing Economic Daily News as its source), Apple Daily (Taiwan) (www.tw.finance.appledaily.com), 
Commercial Times (www.m.ctee.com.tw), and China Times (www.chinatimes.com, citing 
Commercial Times as its source). 5 The articles from these sources, all datedl 12019, were 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 
5 The P:tjtjoner also provided an article in which she is quoted on the subject of Taiwan's! l published on I I 2020, in the magazine Du Wei TW. However, because the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of 
filing (February 24, 2020) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ), we will evaluate evidence that pre-dates the filing of 
the petition. 
4 
reviews of a seminar organized byl I university on the topicl.__ ___________ ------1 
.__ _________________ _.I hosted by the university chairperson]~----~ 
While these articles identify the Petitioner as a panelist and professor in the business administration 
department and quote her, they are not about her; rather, they are reviews of the conference in which 
she participated. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 6 
In addition, none of these articles was accompanied by supporting evidence demonstrating that they 
were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. As it relates to Apple 
Daily (Taiwan) and Commercial Times, although the Petitioner provided total visits from SimilarWeb, 
the Petitioner did not provide evidence demonstrating the significance of the visits and comparative 
circulation or distribution figures in support of a claim that either of these publications would be 
considered major media consistent with this regulatory criterion. 7 Further, regarding Economic Daily 
News, the Petitioner has neither claimed nor provided evidence that this publication qualifies as major 
media in China. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that several reference letters, the Petitioner's citations, her co-authorship of 
two books, and her participation in professional conferences demonstrate her eligibility for this 
criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of her research through recommendation letters praising her for her contributions, the 
authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, 
and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do not demonstrate that her 
research and findings have made the required impact in the field. 
6 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
For instance,~ G who teaches two courses with the Petitioner atl I 
University, and~--------~:who was on the Petitioner's doctoral thesis oral examination 
committee, discuss two of the articles authored by the Petitioner. We note that their letters contain 
multiple identical statements, suggesting that their language was not written independently. While we 
acknowledge that the authors have provided their support for this petition, it is unclear whether the 
letters reflect their independent observations and thus an informed and unbiased opinion of the 
Petitioner's work. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
land state that the ublished article ' 
'------------.=====================;..,..... verified that "organization-level 
commitment-base....__~----------------' to influence performance" and that 
"teamwork processes constitute an important mediating factor." They assert the article was valuable 
because it "helps team members to understand the team's mission, oals, [and] assessed strate ies." 
The further raise the novelt of the ublished article 
'-----......-.........ai~n'""'r'-=e:..=c..;;:o~m=:.m.ending that organizations focus on "how to use management strategies to 
1 ........................... .....___,_---,;:::=~an~d its effects in order to enhance the well-being of employees." Here, 
and I I did not explain how the aforementioned publications in journals have '---------' 
significantly influenced the field in a major way . 
.__ _______ __, the Petitioner's co-a .... u_t_h_o_r_an_d_d_o_c_to_r_a_l _ad_v_i_s_or_a~-----~U_n_iv_e_r_s_it.a.....,y, 
Taiwan rovides that the ublished article 
.__ ___________________________ __.' found that "HR practices, 
incentive compensation plans, performance appraisal systems, and face-to-face communication foster I I' I I speculated on the potential influence 
of the article, stating that it "could have some implications in other disciplines ... as every scientific 
and academic activity involves! I . . . . " While the letter shows promise in the 
Petitioner's work, it does not establish how her work already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, otential im acts. The significant nature of her work 
has yet to be determined or measured. Further raises the ori inalit of the ublished 
article ' 
" statin lication of the "ownership 
perspective" to'----~--~-----------~-------------' is an 
"innovative approach." He asserts that the Petitioner's w<r1< in human rsource management "has 
gained her national and international recognition." Again,~_----~_ did not articulate how the 
Petitioner's publications or findings have impacted the field. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
The letters considered above, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues, primarily contain broad 
attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples 
of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
6 
subsequent work add value. 9 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.10 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. 
Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain 
how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the 
field. Simply stating that the work "has gained [the Petitioner] national and international recognition" 
or that it has potential to majorly impact the field in the future is not sufficient. Without additional 
detail explaining her accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters 
discussed above do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in her 
field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that her 11 articles have coIIectively garnered 257 citations at the 
time of filing. The Petitioner submitted her publication and citation record compiled from Google 
Scholar and other sources. The evidence reflects that her four highest cited articles received 105 (The 
International Journal of Human Resource Management) , 95 (International Journal of Information 
Management), 33 (International Journal of Iriformation Management), and 14 (Social Behavior and 
Personality An International Journal) citations, respectively. 11 But this evidence does not show that 
the impact of her work on the overaII field of human resources management or related fields rises to 
the level of an original contribution of major significance . Highly-cited publications alone are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as 
the number of citations for a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the 
impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the field. 12 
We acknowledge, however, that evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [her] contributions to the field of endeavor." 13 We also acknowledge that the Petitioner 
provided rankings which appear on the websites of several journals that have published her work. The 
Petitioner asserts that the journal ranking of those journals sufficiently establish their impact. The 
impact of a given journal is not persuasiv e evidence of the impact of every article published in that 
journal. A publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overaII 
citation rate; it does not show the influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's 
research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major significance in the field. That context 
must be provided by other evidence in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of her 
articles resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. 
11 The Petitioner's remaining 7 articles received between l and 5 citations, with 3 articles garnering no citations. 
12 We note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner 's entire body of published work, and claims that her 
overall citation rate is high, does not demonstrate that any specific work of hers is so widely cited and relied upon that it 
is considered to have made a major impact in her field. In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations 
to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination if the Director dete1mined she met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8. 
7 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced her field. 
Further, the record included published articles that cited to her work in support of her claim that other 
scientists have relied on her research. A review of those articles, though, does not show the 
significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 14 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an article entitled, I I 
_________ (Journal of Knowledge Management), in which the authors cited several times 
to her second-highest cited article (International Journal of Information Management). 15 However, 
the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other 125 papers 
cited in the article. Moreover, the paper does not indicate that the Petitioner's article is authoritative 
or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. While it is likely that the Petitioner's 
published research has incrementally advanced the research in her field, which is reasonably expected 
of research deemed worthy of publication, her publication record does not establish how she has 
generated widespread commentary or acceptance and application of her findings, nor does the 
evidence establish that her published studies have advanced the field in a significant way. As a result, 
the Petitioner has not shown how her published original research has made an impact that rises to the 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided evidence of her attendance and participation at conferences but did 
not demonstrate how they resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in a journal or presentation at 
a conference alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. Further the 
Petitioner has provided evidence that she is th,...e_c-o--a-u-t-h-or_o-f-th-e_b-o~ok ______ __, _____ __. 
and the co-editor and co-author of the book Althou h she 
provided her author royalty statement from the publisher of.__ ___________ ....,... __ _. 
the Petitioner has not shown that these books are widely used in the field or other evidence 
demonstrating that the inclusion of her work in these texts indicates it is of major significance to the 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Considered together, 
the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, 
and the reference letters from her colleagues , establishes that the Petitioner's published data and 
findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in her field. Therefore, she has not 
met this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 
2013) ( upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in 
the field as a whole). 
15 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that she commands a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field.16 The Petitioner initially 
provided an Individual Income Tax Statement from the National Taxation Bureau o±1 I indicating 
a 2018 combined gross income for the Petitioner andl lofNTD 3,445,009. However, 
this document does not indicate what the Petitioner's previous earnings were for that period. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided her salary income from www.web.sys.scu.edu.tw, indicating that 
her 2019 and 2018 earnings were, respectively, NTD 1,898,297 and NTD 1,598,297. The Petitioner 
also submitted a screenshot from www.jobsalary.com.tw, showing that for 201817 the average salary 
for "Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor, Ph.D." with experience "over 7 years" was 
$80,896. An additional screenshot from www.xe.com indicates that at the time of filing in February 
2020, $80,896 was equal to 2,426.887 TWD/NTD. Further, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
www.jobsalary.com.tw showing the average salary in 2019 for the position of "Human Resources 
Specialist with Ph.D." with "[m]ore than 7 years" experience was $54,225.18 The Petitioner, however, 
must demonstrate that she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to 
others in her field and not just a salary that is above the average salary. 19 In addition, the data appears 
to be based on national figures. The Petitioner did not provide independent evidence that would allow 
us to compare her foreign salary to that of others working in her occupation and geographic area in 
Taiwan. 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the aforementioned average salary information for an associate professor and 
human resources specialist constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. Without documentation 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or was significantly high in 
relation to others in the field, she has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. Further, we 
find that, although the Petitioner met the judging and scholarly articles criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), she did not establish that she meets the criteria 
relating to nationally or internationally recognized awards, published materials in major media, 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
17 The screenshot from Job Salary indicates the average salaries provided were for the period "January to December 107," 
and the record contains additional documentation from Holidays-Calendar.Net showing that the Taiwanese Minguo 
calendar for the year 107 corresponds to 2018 C.E. 
18 The screenshot indicates that the position requires the individual to "[p ]erform human resources research within the 
company or institutes." 
19 Regardless, even considering the average salary of an associate professor, the Petitioner's wages do not appear to be at 
the higher end of the scale. 
9 
original contributions, and high salary. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10094866 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestral musician, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner was a recipient of a major, internationally recognized award or had met at 
least three of ten evidentiary criteria, as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts her eligibility for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the assistant principal_l ___ ~lplayer for thd._ _____ __,l 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
relating to leadin or critical role. We will not disturb this conclusion. The record contains an offer 
letter and concert programs establishing that the Petitioner is the assistant principal 
'------~larer for that entjty i letter of recommendation from I I orchestra personnel 
manager for the : : describing her duties in that role, and news articles showing the I ~ distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser prizes or 
awards, membership, and judging. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion regarding 
1 USC IS records reflect that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification rese1ved for non immigrants of extraordinaiy 
ability. 
2 
the aitistic display c1iterion, and therefore, we consider that issue to be abandoned. 2 Afterreviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established she meets three of the 
regulatory criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially asserted eligibility for this criterion based upon a claim that she received a I I Award in 2008 and provided a certificate recognizing her participation as a musician 
on an album nominated for this award. 3 In response to the Director's subsequently issued request for 
evidence (RFE), 4 the Petitioner acknowledged that the album was nominated for, but did not win the 
.__ _____ _.I She resubmitted the certificate of recognition, referred to it as an award certificate, 
and explained that it "is specific in naming [her] individually for her role on the album ... which 
received a nomination forl I Award." She also included a 2008 article from National 
Public Radio entitled ~----------------~ describing the 2008 D 
.__ __ .....,......!nominees and asserting that the album in question "deserves several awards" and "shovJ.d....lli; 
considered the Best Classical Album." This article does not indicate that the album received theL_J 
I 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged this certificate and article, but found that the Petitioner did 
not meet this criterion as she failed to establish either that the album won ~ I or that she 
received ~ I as a member of the orchestra performing on this album. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts eligibility based upon her receipt of the aforementioned certificate. 
Although the Petitioner received this certificate recognizing her participation on the I I 
nominated album, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) provides that this award must be 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors (an award limited to competitors from a single 
institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 5 The Petitioner does 
not provide the criteria used to grant this certificate, evidence of its national or international 
significance, documentation of the limitations on competitors, or other materials demonstrating that 
the award certificate is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of orchestral music as 
required. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att ): Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4 711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 The Petitioner also submitted evidence rezau:liug the crite:a forreceiving thel lawardanddescribing the I !Academy, which confers thel _ I 
4 In this RFE, the Director requested additional evidence to establish that the Petitioner, either individually, or as patt of 
anorchestra,won al laward. 
5 See 6 USC!S Policy Manual F.2(8)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po !icy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa rt-f-c hapter-2 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner was a member of thd I that the symphony 
was an organization in her field of endeavor, and that her membership in the symphony was based 
upon an open audition judged by recognized experts in that field; however, the Director did not grant 
this criterion because the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that thel I 
required outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion as "[ e ]vidence was submitted to show 
that outstanding achievement was required to even be invited to audition" and that "further 
achievement was required (pe1formance dming the audition) under the careful judging eye of expert 
musician members." Upon review of all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusions with respect to this criterion. 
The Petitioner indicates, and letters in the record corroborate, that she won an open audition to become 
a member of thd I The Petitioner further asserts that both her selection to participate 
in this open audition and her selection as a member of thel I required outstanding 
achievements in the field of music. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the benefit 
sought. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. For the following reasons, the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. 
First, the Petitioner has not provided evidence sufficient to establish the requirements for participating 
in this open audition. Although in their letters both I I and I l senior vice president 
of artistic planning and production for thd l attest that outstanding achievements are 
required to audition for and be selected as a member of the , their letters do not 
specify what these achievements are. For example, ~-----.-~ explains in his letter that thel I I I puts out public notices inviting musicians to apply for its auditions and that "only those 
applicants with outstanding achievement in their educational background and performance history are 
invited" to audition. I I similarly indicates that "[ m ]embership is predicated upon ... 
meeting of minimum qualifications that include past outstanding achievement in the field and 
excelling in a high-pressure performance setting as judged by a panel of experts." Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afJ'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Beyond using the language of the 
statute, the letters of I I and I I do not provide detailed examples of these 
outstanding achievements, and the Petitioner does not off er other mate1ial such as the open audition 
selection process, the criteria for selection as a member of the or other relevant 
documentation, doing so. Absent this evidence, we are unable to determine if the~ _____ __. 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, and accordingly, that the Petitioner's membership 
with this organization satisfies this criterion. 
4 
.__ ____ _.lalso states in her letter that membership in thel I is predicated upon 
"excelling in a high-pressure performance setting as judged by a panel of experts," but does not explain 
how excelling in this environment equals having outstanding achievements in the field of music. The 
record lacks other evidence establishing this. Without documentation demonstrating that surpassing 
others in a high-pressure performance constitutes an outstanding achievement in the field of orchestral 
music,I ts letter is insufficient to establish that thel I requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized expe1ts in the field 
of orchestral music. 
Regarding the docureut titled "Coder Ethical Audition Practices" (Code), it also is insufficient to 
demonstrate that the.__ _____ ~requires outstanding achievements of its members. First, the 
section "Conduct of Auditions," states that an audition committee should "at least include the initial 
screening of applicants." The Code does not indicate how this should be done, rather stating that "the 
existence and composition of an audition committee and the nature and extent of its participation in 
auditioning and hiring is determined locally." In addition, the Code does not include a provision 
requiring that audition applicants have outstanding achievements in the field of music in order to be 
invited for an audition. Moreover, the record does not contain evidence establishing that thel I I I has endorsed this code. This is relevant as the document indicates that only those endorsing 
this code "assert thereby that they will conduct their auditions in accordance with the principles 
aiticulated therein." Without evidence demonstrating that thel I has endorsed the 
Code, and establishing that the Code requires audition applicants to have outstanding achievements in 
the field of orchestral music, this document does not support the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that 
thel I requires outstanding achievements of those who it invites to audition, and 
therefore of its members. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to judging, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve 
this issue. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
me1its dete1mination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1theless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comis, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessa1yto the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 
n.7 (BI A 2015) (declining to reach a ltemative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
that even athletes perfmming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C .F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 10185052 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an anesthesiologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met 
only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiticles ). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits dete1mination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-pait review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an anesthesiologist and professor at thd~---~----~IMedical University. 
A. Evidentiary C1iteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these crite1ia, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary crite1ia at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), relating to judging and to scholarly articles. We will not disturb this conclusion. The record 
reflects that the Petitioner served as a judge of posters at the0Annual Meeting of the Chinese 
Society of Anesthesiology. In addition, it shows that she has authored English language scholarly 
articles appearing in the International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and the Journal 
ofNeuroinflammation, among others.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to membership, 
miginal cont1ibutions, and leading or critical role. Afterreviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the regulatory 
criteria, as required. 
1 We note that in addition to the English language research articles referenced here, the record contains numerous foreign 
language atiicles. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion as she is a "Committee Member" of the Chinese 1ociety I 
of Anesthesiology (CIA), thelChinese Society oflntegrative Anesthesiology (CSIA), and the 
Medical Association an "elevated level of membership" for which she was chosen "by 
recognized national or international experts for her outstanding achievements in the field of 
anesthesiology." 
In his decision, the Director noted that the Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in many 
associations but concluded that she "provided no probative evidence that the associations require 
outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts" 
in her field. He further determined that "the committee memberships are roles for the association not 
memberships." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's determination that committee memberships are not 
memberships is an "error of law" and provides one of our non-precedent decisions in support of her 
asse1tion. This decision was not published as precedent, and therefore does not bind USCIS officers 
in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Accordingly, this 
decision is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Director's determination was an error of law, as 
asserted by the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner further argues that the Director erred because he concluded that the associations in 
which she is a member do not require their '"general members to have outstanding achievements." 
Here, the Petitioner does not accurately represent the Director's conclusions. As we noted above, the 
Director concluded that the record had not demonstrated that these organizations required outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in her field. 
Upon review, the documentation in the record supp01ts the Director's conclusion. 
The plain language of the criteriln reqlires the Petitioner to establish not only that she is a committee 
member of the CSA, CSIA, and but also that "recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields" must judge the Petitioner's "outstanding achievements," in order to become 
such a member. 2 Here the record does not include evidence establishing that "recognized national or 
international experts" judged her achievements as a basis for membership. For example, the Petitioner 
provides correspondence from the Chinese Medical Association (CMA)3 chairman referencing 
"A1ticle 31 of [CMA's] bylaws" which state that "national committee members" elect the committee 
members of the CSA but does not submit these bylaws. The record lacks other evidence regarding the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinaiy Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (mdicating that the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.) 
3 The record reflects that the CSA is a specialty society of the CMA. 
3 
national committee members, or otheiwise establishing whether these members are "recognized 
national or international experts" in the field of anesthesiology. 
With respect to her membership on various CSIA committees, the Petitioner offers documentation 
from CSIA's chairman noting that "[a]ccording to the fourth chapter of the "Measures for the 
Administration of the Professional Committee of Chinese Association oflntegrative Medicine,"4 "the 
Society elected the best members of the Society ... as committee members." As with the CSA, the 
record does not contain the document referenced by the Chairman nor does the Chairman identify the 
organization he calls "the Society." Even were we to assume that the Society is, in fact, CSIA, we 
note that the Chaitman indicates that CSIA is "composed of medical science and technology workers 
of integrated traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine." The record lacks evidence 
demonstrating that these members are "recognized national or international experts" in the field of 
anesthesiology. 
Fidally, lith regard to her membership onl I committees, the Petitioner includes a statement from 
th chai1man stating that I"[ c ]andlidate committee members shall be nominated, recommended 
and evaluated by experts from , specialized branches and municipal medical associations." 
However, as with the CSIA and CSA, the Petitioner does not submit evidence regarding these experts 
establishing whether they are recognized as national or international experts in her field. 
The Petitioner must document that she meets each element in the plain language of the criterion. 
Without evidence establishing that committee membership requires "recognized national or 
international experts" in the field of anesthesiology to have judged her outstanding achievements, she 
has not done so. Accordingly, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the originality of the Petitioner's work, but determined that 
the evidence did not establish its major significance in the field of anesthesiology. He noted 
specifically that she has "been a collaborator on scholarly published papers in the field" and that she 
has "presented [her] work at conferences," but concluded that she had not established the major 
significance of these presentations and papers in her field. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the conttibutions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otheiwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that her scholarly research articles are original in nature. 5 We first 
note that the record includes foreign language articles along with the English translations of their 
4 The Chaiiman states that CSIA is a subsidiaiy committee of the Chinese Association of lntegra tive Medicine (CAIM). 
5 We note the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the DiI·ector "ignored" her peer-reviewed presentations at various 
symposia and "her published atiicles subject to peer-review in scholarly medical journals." However, contraiy to her 
contention, his decision references them directly. 
4 
abstracts. However, the Petitioner does not provide a full English translation of the aiiicles 
themselves. 6 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language 
translation of these articles, we cannot meaningfully determine whether they are accurate and thus 
supp01i her claim that they are 01iginal conttibutions in the field of anesthesiology. Accordingly, these 
foreign language articles are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Notwithstanding this, the record also includes peer-reviewed English language research articles, 
presentations, patents, and research projects which constitute original cont1ibutions in her field. With 
respect to the research articles and presentations, the Petitioner contends on appeal that, as "[t ]he 
scientific peer-review process is recognized as the scientific method of provoking widespread 
commentary," these peer-reviewed publications and presentations "are probative of the significance 
of [her] contributions to her field of endeavor." She does not provide documentation corroborating 
her contention that the peer-review process is so recognized. Absent this evidence, the fact that the 
Petitioner's articles and presentations were subject to the peer-review process is not sufficient to 
establish that they were of major significance in the field of anesthesiology. 
In addition, the Petitioner asse1is that the Director did not account for evidence of independent citations 
to her research articles when determining if they were original contributions of major significance. 
She points to evidence demonstrating that the citation rates for her work had increased "from the time 
the 01iginal petition was submitted to the date of the RFE" and argues that this "clearly showed a high 
professional medical interest in her research and findings." The petitioner has the burden of proof to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit request and continuing 
until the final adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 
(Comm'r 1971) (providing that "Congress did not intend that a petition that was properly denied 
because the beneficiary was not at that time qualified be subsequently approved at a future date when 
the beneficia1y may become qualified under a new set of facts."). Without evidence showing how 
increasing citation rates after the date of filing demonstrate the major significance of her research prior 
to the filing of the petition, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Director failed to account for the "382 ... independent citations" to 
her work in determining whether it constitutes an original contribution of major significance. 7 The 
Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Scopus Author Identifier demonstrating that the 
Petitioner's research has been cited by other researchers a total of 339 times. 8 As it relates to the 
cumulative citations of her work, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made 
6 The Director noted in his decision that the Petitioner had submitted evidence related to this criterion that was "not in the 
English language" and "not accompanied by a certified English language translation in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b )" and advised the Petitioner "therefore this evidence cannot be considered probative." He did not identify the 
evidence to which he was referring. 
7On appeal, the Petitioner refers to evidence submitted with her response to the Director's RFE. As we note above, a 
petitioner must establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time of filing and continuing until the final adjudication. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. at 45, 49. Accordingly we will evaluate the evidence 
provided at the time of filing indicating that the Petitioner's work had received a total of3 39 citations. 
8 We note that this document included three foreign language articles not accompanied by full translations but that these 
articles received no citations and therefore are not included in this count. 
5 
miginal contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
identify her original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. Here, the Petitioner 
does not explain or provide evidence demonstrating how the cumulative number of citations of her 
authored aiiicles or findings establish her cont1ibutions of major significance in the field. Moreover, 
aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying 
which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The aforementioned documentation from Scopus Author Identtfier further demonstrates that her three 
highest cited English language articles received 137 (Anesthesiology), 67 (Neuropharmacology), and 
46 (Anesthesia and Analgesia) citations, respectively. Again, this c1ite1ion requires the Petitioner to 
establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, 
citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written 
work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of her published 
articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to her articles. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that the citations to a particular article are unusually high in her field or how they compare 
to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although her citations indicate 
that her research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
number of citations to her individual aiiicles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 9 
The Petitioner further argues on appeal that the frequency with which her research has been 
downloaded demonstrates that it is of major significance in her field. 10 She contends that the Director 
was wrong to reach the opposite conclusion as, in her words, her "medical work could not be viewed 
as important since her research and medical information could be downloaded by general citizenry." 
The Petitioner claims instead that "only medical professionals ... would view or even [sic] capable of 
deciphering [the Petitioner's] important research materials." However, the record lacks evidence, and 
the Petitioner does not off er documentation on appeal, corroborating her assertion or otherwise 
establishing that only those in the field of anesthesiology are downloading her work. Even had she 
done so, the Petitioner does not submit documentation explaining the relevance of these downloads in 
the field of anesthesiology. For example, she does not provide evidence establishing that this number 
of downloads is unusually high in the field of anesthesiology or comparing this frequency to the 
number of times others have downloaded articles viewed as majorly significant in the field. As with 
citations, the number of downloads indicate that the research has received attention from others, but 
the Petitioner did not establish that the frequency with which these articles have been downloaded 
reflect their major significance in the field as a whole. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the Director failed to account for letters in the record which 
"described clearly how the petitioner's scientific and scholarly articles are both miginal and of major 
significance in the field." Upon review, while these letters generally describe the Petitioner's research 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor).) 
10 The record includes a document from the China Nationa I Knowledge Infrastructure database reflecting that her atiicles 
have been downloaded more than 1, 1000 times. 
6 
in the field of anesthesiology, they lack specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her work has had on the overall field.11 For exam le Director of the 
Department of Anesthesiology o ~------------~Medical College oti O I 
University of Science and Technology, summarizes the Petitioner's "early research on the subject of 
anesthesia, I I" noting that it has "achieved 
internationally recognized breakthroughs," but does not offer detailed examples of these 
breakthroughs. I 11 I of the Chinese Journal of 
Anesthesiology, notes "[the Petitioner's] academic papers ... have attracted many positive feedbacks 
from the industry" and that "[her] study on the effect o~ ~ rates has 
played a guiding role in scientific research in this field and has made a great contribution to Chinese 
clinical anesthesia," but does not specifically articulate how the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion.12 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusmy statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Absent 
detailed examples of how the Petitioner's research has been of major significance in the field, the 
reference letters do not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
The reference letters also discuss the Petitioner's current research on the relationship between 
and discuss its future '---------------------,-------,...-------' significance. For example, in his correspondence states his belief that this research "will 
provide unprecedented new evidence for the b£ I anesthesia, 
which is of great scientific value and humanistic significance." '-----~ thel I of 
the Anesthesiology Department of th~ I Medical University, opines that "[the 
Petitioner's] scientific hypothesis based on pre-experimental results, is ve1y innovative" and states her 
belief that "the successful completion of this study will greatly contribute to the advancement of the 
.__ _______ _. field." Here, both authors speculate on the future significance of the Petitioner's 
work but do not provide detailed examples showing that the cunent impact of the Petitioner's research 
rises to a level of "major significance" as required.13 Therefore, these reference letters are insufficient 
to demonstrate that the Petitioner's research already qualifies as a conttibution of major significance 
in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the ma·or si nificance of her research is demonstrated b the 
a::lication of research from her project 
I ~- " 114 by other hospitals. The record reflects that this research bas been 
applied to projects canied out by thd I Hospital, thd I 
Medical University, among others. However, she does not provide evidence demonstrating how these 
11 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
12 See 6 USC JS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2 ), Appendix: Extra ordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
http s: I I www.uscis.gov/po licy-man ua 1/v o lum e-6-p a 1t-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id.; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regula toiy 
language but do not explain how an individual's contiibutions have akeady influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions ofmajorsignificance in the field.) 
14 This Petitioner references Appendix 2.3 of her RFE response in the appellate btief. In the letter accompanying her RFE 
response, she provides this desctiption of the evidence submitted therein. 
7 
hospitals' application of her research 1ises to the level of major significance in the field. For example, 
she does not submit evidence showing that this number of research applications is unusually high or 
otherwise reflects that her research has been widely implemented in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's patents, they demonstrate that the Petitioner has made original 
contributions in the field ofanesthesiology. However, this criterion also requires that they be of major 
significance in the field. To establish her patents' "major significance" the Petitioner provides a 
document titled "Proof of Patent Application" from the I I Hospital of I I 
indicating that it used one of the Petitioner's patented products in 206 of its cases. While this 
demonstrates the usefulness of her patented product to this hospital, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
that her original contributions have been of major significance to the field as a whole. 15 Here, she 
does not submit evidence showing how this hospital's use reflects the patent's major significance in 
the field. Moreover, the record lacks evidence demonstrating that her two additional patents have been 
used by others, implemented in the field, or otherwise are of major significance in the field. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner does not meet this c1iterion. 
Evidence that the alien has peiformed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that she has served in a critical role forl !Medical 
~ersity ~ ~-As evidence of this, she points to a letter of recommendation fro.~ I 
L_J I of the I I the aforementioned letters of recommendation, and copies of 
awards she has received. 
In order to demonstrate that a petitioner served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "c1itical" if the petitioner's 
performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather 
the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 16 
In his letterJ I states that "[the Petitioner] ... has played a sustained critical role in the 
development of clinical anesthesiology in our hospital." He asserts that "[t]he clinical and scientific 
research level of the Department of Anesthesia ... and its influence on clinical anesthesia research have 
greatly improved in the medical field" as a result of the Petitioner's "active participation in the 
academic exchanges on anesthesiology at home and abroad." Whilel I discusses the Petitioner's 
research and conference activities, he does not provide detailed examples showing how her research 
has resulted in improving the Department of Anesthesia's influence in the medical field. I lalso 
states that the Petitioner "trained many young talents in the field of anesthesiology for our hospital" 
but does not indicate how this training has contributed to the outcomes ofl lor offer detailed 
examples demonstrating that it has done so. 
15 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
16 See 6 USC!S Policy J1anualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po !icy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa ti-f-c hapter-2. 
8 
.__ __ ....,lalso notes that the hospital recognized the Petitioner' s contributions to the Department of 
Anesthesiology by awarding her "the title of "Advanced individual in scientific research for 50 years I I and "Third Prize for Advanced Individuals in Scientific 
Research ofYear2015," among others. The record contains copies of these awards which corroborate 
his assertion. We acknowledge that these awards demonstrate the Petitioner's importance to the 
hospital and the quality of her research. However,I I does not provide specific examples 
explaining how these awards for scientific research reflect the importance of the Petitioner's work to 
the outcomes of the hospital itself. Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the petitioner's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. 17 Absent detailed information addressing how 
the instant Petitioner's role forl I was of significant importance to the outcome of that entity, 
.__ __ ---=-s .:.;le:.:.t.:.;te:.:.r..:;is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a critical role forl I 
Further,..___ _ __, s letter does not include an address, as required pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 204.5(g)(l). 
The remaining letters of recommendation, discussed above in the context of the original contribution 
criterion, lack detailed examples showing how the Petitioner contributed tol I in a manner that 
was critical to that organizations activities. I ! Director of the Department of Anesthesiology 
of thel !University , indicates that the graduate students whom the 
Petitioner has tutored "showed excellent anesthesiology theory research ability" but does not offer 
specific examples of how this contributed to the activities ofi I The remainder of the letters 
do not address the Petitioner's employment withl I As we note above, letters from individuals 
with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how 
the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 18 Absent a discussion 
of the Petitioner's contributions to I I or their importance to that entity, these letters are 
insufficient to show that she meets this criterion. 
In addition, the authors of this correspondence do not indicate, nor does the record demonstrate, that 
they currently or have in the past employed the Petitioner. We further note that the letters do not 
include the authors' full address. Accordingly, they are not in compliance with the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5 (g)(l) which provides, in relevant part, that "[e]vidence relating to qualifying 
experience or training shall be in the form ofletter(s) from current or former employer(s) or trainer(s) 
and shall include the name, address, and title of the writer. ... " For the aforementioned reasons, these 
letters are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
17 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F .2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
h ttps: / /www. u sc is.gov/ po !icy-man ua 1/v o lum e-6-p a rt-f-chapter-2 
1s 1d. 
9 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordina1y ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17269097 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 25, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
as required. The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he would 
continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of 
the Director's decision, as well as two subsequent motions to reconsider. The matter is now before us 
on a third motion to reconsider . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I.LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence , then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at leastthree of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010)( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
conect fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an inconect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was inconect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We cannot grant a motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which in this case was our dismissal of the Petitioner's second motion to reconsider. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). Therefore, the issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our 
decision to dismiss that motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
The Petitioner is an athlete, instructor, referee, and judge in several martial arts disciplines and seeks to 
continue working as a martial arts instructor in the United States. The Director denied the petition after 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the initial evidentiaty criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal after determining, on de nova review, thatthe Petitioner satisfied only one of the three 
criteria he claimed to meet, related to judging the work ofothers in his field, at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner then filed a motion to reconsider, which we also dismissed. We concluded that the 
Petitioner had not demonstrated that we inconectly applied the law or USCIS policy in determining that 
he did not meet the evidentiary criteria which relate to receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized awards and memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and (ii). 
In his second motion to reconsider, the Petitioner reasserted his claim that he satisfied the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) and (ii). He argued that we did not adhere to the preponderance of the evidence 
standard as required by agency policy and case law 1 and that we "unilaterally impose[ d] Petitioner to 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicy Manual.html, citing to Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 
(Comm'r 1989). 
2 
provide additional evidence." In dismissing the motion, we articulated again why the evidence the 
Petitioner submitted did not meet his burden to establish that he met all elements of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii). We emphasized that the submission ofrelevant evidence 
in support of a criterion does not automatically establish that a petitioner has met their burden of proof 
and demonstrated that all requirements have been met. We further determined that the Petitioner did 
not establish how our previous decisions had introduced novel evidentiary requirements beyond those 
included in the plain language of the regulatory criteria. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the awards and membership criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii) and contends that we did not adequately address his argument that 
we applied an incorrect standard in evaluating his eligibility for the requested classification. 
Specifically, the Petitioner argues that while we acknowledged the preponderance of the evidence 
standard in our most recent decision, we did not explain how we properly applied that standard in our 
previous decisions. He asserts that our appellate decision relied on '"vague statements" and failed to 
explain how his evidence was insufficient to meet his burden of proof. 
To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received 
prizes or awards, and that they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he meets this criterion based on his receipt 
of a gold medal at thel !Martial Artsl I Championship held inl I The 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard requires that the evidence demonstrate that the claim is 
"probably true," where the determination of "truth" is made based on the factual circumstances of each 
individual case. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (quotingMatter of E-M-, 
20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). The truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence 
alone but by its quality. Thus, in adjudicating the petition pursuant to the preponderance of the 
evidence standard, we must examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and 
credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine 
whether the fact to be proven is probably true. Id. 
As noted in our prior decisions, the record includes what appears to be an official event photograph of 
the Petitioner with a medal, on which he is identified as the I I Gold Medalist" at the I I Martial Artsl l Championship. The limited information provided by this 
document indicates that the competition was sponsored byl I I I This evidence has sufficient probative value to establish that the Petitioner was the recipient 
of this award and that the award is in his field of martial arts. The Petitioner has not explained, 
however, how this documentation establishes, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the medal he 
received is a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field. 
Neither the regulations nor USCIS policy guidance indicate that providing evidence of a petitioner's 
receipt of an award or prize is sufficient to meet their burden of proof to establish that the award is 
also a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in a given field. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for grantingthe prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
3 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 Based on this guidance, submission of evidence 
of a receipt of a petitioner's prize or award alone, without any context or information regarding the 
award's significance, is not necessarily sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof to meet all 
elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record does not contain any other evidence regarding thtj I Martial A1is~I ___ ___, 
Championship event, such as official results, a list of competitors, the event's entrance requirements 
or rules, media coverage of the event, or other information regarding the nature and scope of the event 
We cannot determine based on the name of this competition alone that any medal awardedatthe event 
is a nationally or intern~tionall} recognized prize or award. The Petitioner also submitted letters from 
two personal contacts i who mention his receipt of a gold medal at this event, but we did not 
find such letters to be probative of the national or international recognition of the prize in his field, as 
neither letter was from an individual who claimed any expertise in the martial aiis. For these reasons, 
we concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the medal he received at this event was a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
While the Petitioner continues to disagree with this determination, he has not established that we 
inconectly applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his prior motion to reconsider or that we 
failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence standard to our evaluation of the evidence submitted 
in support of the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Regarding the criterion relating to his membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the 
Petitioner asserts that we did not properly evaluate his evidence. In reference to our decision 
dismissing his second motion to reconsider, he states: 
The AAO now states that in particular [the Petitioner's] the [sic]~I _____ ___, 
Karate Association could not be considered because the record does not establish that 
membership in this organization requires outstanding achievement. However, the 
AAO states so right after acknowledging that the Central Executive Committee of the 
above organization has awarded honorary membership to [the Petitioner] precisely 
because of his "outstanding success and extraordinary achievement in the field of 
Martial Arts" .... The contradiction in the AAO' s reasoning could not be more evident 
and the criteria should have been considered met by [ the Petitioner]. 
The Petitioner further argues that the statements made in a letter from the secretary general of the I !Karate Association are sufficient to establish that his membership meets all elements 
of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and that we imposed novel evidentiaty 
requirements beyond those found in the plain language of the applicable regulation by determining 
that additional evidence was necessary. 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), a petitioner must demonstrate that the association 
in which they claim membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in that field. Here, we acknowledged the 
contents of the letter from the secretary general of the I I Karate Association and 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 6. 
4 
explained why it did not meet the Petitioner's burden to establish that he meets each element required 
by the plain language of the regulation. 
First, we noted that the referenced letter was not supported by independent evidence of this 
association's membership requirements. We observed that "the fact that the secretary general made a 
vague statement about the Petitioner's accomplishments in the field does not support a finding that all 
honorary members of the organization are required to have outstanding achievements." On motion, 
the Petitioner asserts that we improperly required that he establish not only that his membership was 
granted based on his outstanding achievements in the field, but also required him "to show that this 
was true for all members of the organization, which is evidence impossible to gather for applicants as 
it refers to other people." 
The Petitioner has misinterpreted the pmiion of our decision quoted above. It is the Petitioner's burden 
to establish that the association requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition of 
membership, a burden that can be met by fully documenting the association's formal membership 
requirements. We did not impose arequirementthatthe Petitioner gather evidence of the outstanding 
achievements of other honorary members of the same association. In this case, the letter from the 
secretary general of thel I Karate Association refers to portions of the association's 
constitution which presumably discuss its membership requirements. The relevant pmiions of this 
constitution have not been provided for review, the secretary general's letter does not clearly state 
what those membership requirements are, and the record lacks any other evidence related to the 
association's membership requirements. For these reasons, we determined that the letter did not meet 
the Petitioner's burden to establish that the association requires honorary members to demonstrate 
outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Second, we acknowledged that the letter from thd !Karate Association's secretary 
general indicates that the Petitioner's honorary membership was approved by the organization's 
Central Executive Committee. However, we emphasized thatthis statement was not sufficientto show 
that the members of the committee who are responsible for judging or approving honorary membership 
are recognized national or international experts in the field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not acknowledge or address this determination on motion and has not established 
how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy by requiring that he satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that we imposed novel evidentiaiy 
requirements with respect to this criterion, that we failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard, or that we otherwise incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his prior 
motion to reconsider. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that we have refused to address the Director's determination that he did 
not provide evidence that he will continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States, as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). In our most recent decision dismissing his second motion, and in 
our two prior decisions, we noted that we need not address that issue since the Petitioner had not 
established that he met the initial evidentiary requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and therefore 
could not establish his eligibility for the requested classification. The Petitioner does not argue that 
5 
we misapplied the law or USCIS policy by reserving this issue. For the reasons discussed above, we 
will once again reserve this issue. 3 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration of our prior decision. Accordingly, the 
motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 Sec INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessa1yto the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 10767610 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had received a one-time major award or that he met any of the alternate 
regulatory criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate internationa l 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is anl I engineer who previously was employed withl I I and ...:I ======!....:.::!2.=-:,1 The record reflects that he holds a m .... a_s-te_r_o_f_s_c-ie-n-ce-in---,.l-----1 
eng1eering I from thPI m , , 1 l'\nd a master of business administration 
from University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner had not met any of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to published material, judging, original contributions, scholarly articles, artistic 
display, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), and (viii), 
respectively. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not 
satisfy at least three of these criterion, as required. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner again claims his eligibility for this criterion through numerous articles 
already in the record. First, he asserts that a Bimco Bulletin article satisfies this criterion becaµs.cit, 
features an in-depth discussion about a newl I system that he developed foL_J 
However, the record does not contain evidence sufficient, by the preponderance of the evidence, to 
corroborate the Petitioner's assertion that he developed this system, and that the article is about him 
and his work foQ As the Petitioner acknowledges on appeal, this article does not reference the 
Petitioner by name, nor it does discuss the Petitioner's contribution~e development ote=J's ---------~I system. Instead, another document from L_J in the record notes the 
2 
Petitioner's role as a project manager in ensuring that "the project was successfully delivered with 
low-maintenance costs" among others but does not attribute development to the Petitioner. The 
Petitioner does not offer evidence explaining how the delivery of these systems equates to his 
development of them, as asse1ied. Fmiher, a letter froml I D's chief executive officer, 
referenced by the Petitioner in the appellate bri~aises the Petitioner's "technical and functional 
gifts" and notes that these gifts play a "key role inL_J s research and development efforts." However, I I does not fmiher desc1ibe how the Petitioner played a 'kel role' or identify these efforts, 
and does not establish that the Petitioner developed theisystem. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the published material should be about the petitioner, relating to his work in the field, not 
just about his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 1 As this aiiicle 
is about his former employer, and absent evidence sufficient to corroborate the Petitioner's assertion 
that he led the development of the.__ _______ __. system referenced in the article, this 
document does not satisfy the c1iterion. 
Next, the Petitioner arJues tlat a U.S. Coast Guard Forum article, aboutc=Js work with the U.S. 
Coast Guard to have regulation issued and how□ benefited from this rule, satisfies this 
criterion. In the appellate brief, the Petitioner asserts that benefited because the company is "one 
of very few companies, thanks to [the Petitioner], who is able to sell this type of technology." He 
therefore argues that this article is about him related to his work. As discussed above, the record lacks 
evidence sufficient to establish that the Petitioner is directly responsible for the development of1 I I I systems forc::J....1:!ie record further lacks evidence establishing the Petitioner's role 
in the publication of this rule orl__Js ability to sell this technology. In order to satisfy this crite1ion, 
the published material should be about the petitioner, relating to his work in the field, not just about 
his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 2 Here the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence sufficient to cmrnborate his asse1iion that he is directly responsible for D's 
ability to sell its.__ _______ ~ system, and that this article is about him rather than his 
employer. Accordingly he has not shown that this article meets this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner refers to a Florida Tech TODAYarticle as evidence ofhjf eligibility. 
This article, is a discussion wit~'-----~- a professor 
of.__ ________ _. enginee1ing at about his work testing and evaluating! I 
coatings. Although the article includes a photograph of the Petitioner with the professor, the article 
does not discuss the Petitioner's work in the field and it is not about the Petitioner. Articles that do 
not pertain to a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that "he was the subject of multiple articles published by Foreign 
Policy and ABC7! News [sic]." The record includes an article published in Foreign Policy and is about 
the Petitioner related to his work. However, this criterion requires not only that the published material 
be about the Petitioner and related to his work but also that it be in a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. Here the Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as on-line 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordina1y Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
3 
circulation statistics or other relevant data, for Foreign Policy to show that its circulation is high 
relative to others, or information about this publication, to show that it is a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media, as required. 3 
The ABC7 News document referenced by the Petitioner also is about him and related to his work. 
However, the Petitioner also provided a printout from www.abcnewswire.com indicating that this 
article is a press release published byl I a company owned by the Petitioner according to 
registration documents in the record. This ress release directs readers to a website 
with the Petitioner's phone number, the text 
and a button reading "Book an 
Appointment."4 Therefore, it appears that this evidence is designed to promote the Petitioner's 
services. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the petitioner's products or promoting 
his or her services are not generally considered to be published mate1ial about them. 5 Even if we view 
this document in the most favorable light, the Petitioner does not provide information about or on-line 
circulation statistics forABC7 News to show that its circulation is high relative to others, demonstrating 
that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major media as required. 6 
Finally, the Petitioner states that he was "interviewed by Warlock Asylum International News which 
published a full featured interview and Q&A" about him and his expe1tise. The record reflects that 
this interview was published in November 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Here, the instant petition was filed in March 2019. As 
this material was published afterthe filing date, it does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts eligibility for this criterion as he "regularly reviews the work of his 
peers and the employees he oversees" and notes that "[ c ]opies of employee reviews and training 
provided by [the Petitioner] as well as work product reviews are enclosed." Upon review, we note 
that the record does not contain emP,lo ee reviews. The record includes a PowerPoint slide deck 
att1ibuted to the Petitioner entitled ~---------------------~ but 
the Petitioner does not provide the duties he performed as a trainer or offerother evidence establishing 
that this training equates to his participation as a judge of the work of others his field. 
The record also contains several photographs of the Petitioner inspecting equipment or in front of 
vessels with captions such as "Judging their work and teaching them the professional regulatory 
methods," and "Judging the work and training them with the new regulatory mate1ials." Repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
3 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 See ~----<last visited May 26, 2021) and incorporated into the record by reference. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua/F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 Id. 
4 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). The Petitioner does not identify 
whose work he is judging, list the duties he performed as a judge, or offer evidence allowing us to 
determine if the actions shown in these photographs satisfy this criterion. Without this information, 
these photographs are not sufficient to show that he meets this c1iterion. 
The record also includes certificates of compliance and invoices signed by the Petitioner as project 
manager, a copy of a technical agreement bearing his signature, and a PowerPoint presentation 
authored by the Petitioner in his capacity as a project manager forl I The PowerPoint 
presentation explains that as a project manager, the Petitioner "contacted vendors," "negotiated the 
pricing and selected the vendors who can complete international shipping," and has "successfully 
completed many equipment installations." However, the Petitioner does not submit evidence showing 
how these actions equate to the participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. Further, as 
noted by the Director in his decision, the phrase "a judge" implies a f mmal designation in a judging 
capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner 
does not submit evidence indicating that his employer designated him '"as a judge" in his capacity as 
a project manager or otherwise establishing that his role as such is consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. Without further documentation, this evidence is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media."7 The Petitioner asserts 
eli ibilit for this criterion based on his authorship of the book entitled.I . I 
and published byl I in 2008, and 
through the publication of '~-----------------------~8 
Although the Petitioner does not identify this evidence by title, we note that in his decision the Director 
indicated that the Petitioner previously submitted four books entitled I I 
I . 11 l I I andl I to demonstrate 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how authorship of these books qualify as scholarly articles in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. As books may be published independently or self-published, mere publication does not 
establish that a book is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Moreover, 
scholarly articles should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. 9 However, the Petitioner does not offer evidence showing that these 
books were w1itten for "learned" individuals and contain the characteristics of a scholarly aiticle. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. ~-----~ ~---~ 
8 We note that the Petitioner also claims that "two other papers published ml I and I I,,, satisfy 
this criterion but does not indicate where in the record these papers are found, or otherwise identify them. Accordingly 
we do not address whether they meet this criterion. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinaty Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa rt-f-chapter-2. 
5 
Even if the Petitioner's books equate to scholarly articles, he did not submit any documentary evidence 
to establish that these books are professional or major trade publications or other major media. He did 
not, for instance, provide statistics or other evidence establishing the major standing of these books.10 
In addition the Petitioner claims this work "led to further publications such as Market Watch: The 
Wall Street Journal, Yahoo! News The Ritz Herald, Daily Country News, Foreign Policy and many 
more." With regard to the Foreign Policy article, as we note above, the record lacks evidence 
demonstrating that it is a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media. 
Pertaining to the remainder of the publications identified by the Petitioner on appeal, we note that 
these articles appeared in these publications in October and November 2019. However, the Petitioner 
filed the instant petition in March 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements 
for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Documentation published after the filing date is not sufficient 
to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner, therefore, has not provided documentation sufficient to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien '.s work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility for this criterion through his presentations at scholarly 
exhibitions. He argues that his presentations are comparable to a display of work at artistic exhibition, 
and therefore evidence establishing that he has presented at such scholarly exhibitions should be 
"admissible to satisfy the 'display' criterion under the 'comparable evidence' regulation." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to the petitioner's occupation. A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3). Here, 
the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot off er evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. The fact that the Petitioner did not submit documentation that he 
fulfills at least three is not evidence that an engineer could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
did not show that he fulfills this criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the four criteria relating to published 
material, judging, scholarly articles, and artistic display. Although he claims to meet two additional 
criteria on appeal, relating to contributions of major significance and to performance of a leading or 
10 See 6 USCIS PolicyJ,1anualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, (providing that evidence of professional or major trade 
publications or in othermajormedia publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and the intended audience). 
6 
c1itical role, we need not reach these additional issues. As the Petitioner cannot meet the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 11 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten c1ite1ia. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BI A 2015) (declining to reach a ltemative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16169358 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sports agent, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, al lcoach advisor, as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that: ( 1) the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required; 
and (2) the Beneficiary will continue to work in his area of expertise. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Thf Renefjcjarywas a professionalc=]player from 1990 to 2003, playing forlocal teams and, in 1995, 
the_ !National Team. The Beneficir ultiiately played for 23 different teams id I Europe, 
and the Middle East, returning to his nativ upon his retirement. At the time the Petitioner filed 
~etition, the Beneficiary was employed as an advisor and head coach for I I 
L__J and as a I I coach advisor for I I a youth team in the._l ______ ____._ 
League. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted an undated letter from 
I hffering the Beneficiary a foll-time position as al I coach. The Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary's position with I I lasted beyond the 2019 season; local newspaper 
coverage indicated that the appointment was for the one season. 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary "advices [sic] and coaches for I I which use his name 
and knowledge to attract investors." The Beneficiary entered the United States as a B-1 nonimmigrant 
tourist, and later changed status to O-lA nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability in athletics. We 
acknowledge that O-lA nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the record 
of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
2 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that its evidence meets six of the above criteria. The Petitioner does not contest 
the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (v), and therefore we consider that issue 
to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence is sufficient to meet, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, at least three criteria, numbered (i), (ii), and (iii). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner shows that the Beneficiary played for thel I team I I when, in 1996, that team 
won the.__ _______ __. The Petitioner has established the significance of this prize. For example, 
according to an NBC Sports article in the record I I I f Evidence regarding other prizes and awards is less 
persuasive, and the Petitioner has submitted evidence of various second-place finishes without 
establishing that the runners-up received any actual prizes or awards, but the evidence about thel I I I is sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
From the submitted evidence, we conclude that the Beneficiary's membership in thel I national 
team is a qualifying membership, or comparable to such membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Much of the record consists of newspaper articles, mostly published between 1989 and 2003. At least 
some of these publications qualify as major media. The Director discounted these materials because "the 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
articles are not about the beneficiary and his work as~ lcoach." Nevertheless, many of the articles 
are primarily about the Beneficiary and his work as al lplayer. The distinction between a player and 
a coach is an important, but separate, issue, which we will discuss further below. 
The above conclusions suffice to show that the Petitioner's evidence meets at least three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria would not change the outcome 
of this appeal, but all of the evidence submitted to satisfy the remaining criteria has been considered 
in the context of the final merits determination discussed below.2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary is eligible for classification "as a player of extraordinary 
ability," and most of the submitted evidence concerns the Beneficiary's career as a player. The 
Beneficiary was the subject of frequent newspaper coverage in the 1990s, and many of these stories 
indicated that the Beneficiary was responsible for winning matches that were important for the various ~ for which he played. With further support, these materials might have established that the 
Beneficiary earned national acclaim as al I player in the 1990s. As it stands, much of the evidence 
lacks necessary context. For instance, the record shows that the Beneficiary signed a four-year contract 
with aD for $600,000 plus substantial benefits, but he left thatOwithin about 18 months, and 
ultimately played for 23 teams during his career. The record lacks sufficient information to show whether 
2 One point, however, bears mentioning. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) calls for evidence of the beneficiary's 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for 
which classification is sought. When the Petitioner filed the petition in December 2018, she did not claim that the Beneficiary 
had acted as a judge in this manner She added this c'.aim in her February 2020 response to the RFE, and submitted a letter 
from the chief executive officer ofl I who stated that the Beneficiary's work there involved judging the 
"technical ability" and "tactical ability" of prospective. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that this letter does not establish work as a judge prior to the petition's December 2018 
filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), which requires the Petitioner to meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion, and purports to quote from the letter, stating that the 
Beneficiary had worked withl ~'since August of 2018 as ~ I Coach helping our staff coach teams and identify 
new talent." This statement would place the Beneficiary's judging activity before Decemb~. The letter, however, does 
not contain this passage. It states that the Beneficiary "has worked with us since 2019 as aL__Jcoach Advisor helping our 
staff coach teams and identify new talent" ( emphasis added). Previously, counsel had accurately quoted this same sentence 
from the letter. Counsel also specifically identifies the letter as "RFE Response, Exhibit G," demonstrating that there is no 
confusion as to which letter counsel is quoting. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
these frequent moves were the result of increasing demand for his services by the most prominent teams, 
or other reasons not inherently reflective of acclaim. 
The key issue in this proceeding, and the reason underlying the Director's denial of the petition, is that 
the Beneficiary is no longer a professional I I player, and does not seek to enter the United States in 
order to play at a professional level. These undisputed facts led the Director to conclude that the 
Beneficiary does not seek to enter the United States to continue working in his area of expertise, and 
colored the Director's conclusions about the initial evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Whatever recognition the Beneficiary may have earned as a player in the 1990s, the statute requires 
sustained national or international acclaim; evidence of past acclaim cannot suffice to establish eligibility. 
But the Beneficiary retired from playing about 15 years before the filing of the petition. The Petitioner 
has submitted substantially less published material about the Beneficiary since that time, much of which 
is nostalgic or retrospective in nature rather than indicating that the Beneficiary's continued activities 
attract news coverage in their own right. For example, a 2018 article from thd I states 
that the Beneficiary "was well-known in the 90s." As early as 2001, before the Beneficiary retired, an 
article in another paper indicated that he "wants to return [to] the glories he achieved in the early 1990s." 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites two unpublished appellate decisions from 2016. These decisions have no 
binding authority as precedent, but there are also factors in both decisions that distinguish them from the 
case at hand. First, the Petitioner cites Matter of K-S-Y-, ID# 14269 (AAO Mar. 9, 2016), in which we 
stated: "We may conclude that coaching is within an athlete's area of expertise under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act if (1) the individual's national or international athletic acclaim was recent, 
and (2) he or she sustained that acclaim upon transition to coaching at a national level." Id. at 6. In 
that case, the Petitioner "filed the ... petition ... within seven months of his last major competitive 
achievement." Id. In the present case, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets either 
of these two conditions. The Beneficiary had retired from the sport 15 years before the filing date, and 
the record does not show that any acclaim he earned as an athlete has continued into his coaching career. 
The Petitioner also cites Matter of X-N-, ID# 15507 (AAO Apr. 20, 2016), stating that we 
"acknowledged that a coach's athletic success reflects his or her expertise in the sport." The Petitioner 
quotes a sentence fragment: "the Petitioner's expertise in gymnastics generally is supported by his own 
prior success as a gymnast." Id. at 4. This fragment, however, omits key context evident in the complete 
sentence: "Though not determinative of his preeminence as a coach, the Petitioner's expertise in 
gymnastics generally is supported by his own prior success as a gymnast." Id. (emphasis added). We 
did not state or imply that prior acclaim as an athlete was sufficient, in itself: to demonstrate acclaim 
as a coach, or to permanently establish eligibility regardless of the former athlete's subsequent career. 
Rather, we devoted considerable attention to that petitioner's achievements as a coach, noting that 
"[h ]e has trained students at the highest levels for over fifteen years," with several of those students 
winning gold medals in national-level competitions. The Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary in the present case has reached a comparable level of achievement. 
In a new (2010) lettr submitted on appeal, a professiona~ I coach claims that the Beneficiary worked 
for him "as a coach from 2006 to 2017." But an earlier letter from this same individual contradicts 
this assertion. The coach stated in 2018 that the Beneficiary "has been working as myl I Technical 
Advisor since 2008." This earlier letter does not indicate that the Beneficiary had any experience as a 
5 
coach, rather than as an advisor reporting to a coach, before he entered the United States a few months 
prior to the petition's filing date. The revision of this claim on appeal raises questions of credibility, 
particularly in light of counsel's misquoting of th~ I letter to backdate the Beneficiary's activity 
there. Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of 
other evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
When weighing the conflicting assertions about the extent of the Beneficiary's coaching work abroad, we 
note the Petitioner's submission of a book published in 2012,I 1 , I 
which includes an interview with the Beneficiary. The translation submitted by the Petitioner does not 
mention any then-current coaching work. Rather, it states that the Beneficiary "[ c ]urrently ... manages 
his assets ... and invests in courses to start his coaching career." The initial submission also included 
letters dated 2017 and 2018 from various prominent! I players, none of whom indicated that the 
Beneficiary had ever worked as a coach. The players state, instead, that the Beneficiary has worked "as 
a technical advisor fo~ !teams in! I (the wording varies slightly from letter to letter). 
The record does not unambiguously establish that the Beneficiary had any coaching experience at all 
before 2018, and the small amount of evidence the Petitioner has submitted about the Beneficiary's recent 
work does not indicate that he has earned acclaim for his post-athletic career. The record does not 
establish that the U.S. teams that employed him at the time of filing compete at the highest levels 
nationally or internationally. 
As noted above, the Petitioner cited the Beneficiary's recent work witH las evidence of his activity 
as a judge. While the Beneficiary's evaluation of children during team tryouts may technically qualify as 
'judging," this activity is inherent to coaching at all levels of competition, and it does not serve to 
distinguish the Beneficiary from others in the same occupation. Judging the abilities o~ I players 
between seven and ten years of age ( ages shown on team rosters in the record) neither requires, nor causes, 
sustained national or international acclaim for the person doing the judging. 
The record does not show that the Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim 
that continued into his post-competitive career. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary is eligible for the classification sought. 
C. Continued Work/Prospective Benefit 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Beneficiary will not continue working in his area of 
expertise because he is no longer playing competitively. For the reasons already discussed above, we 
generally agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Beneficiary's area of expertise isl I which 
is broad enough to encompass coaching and other related activities. The Director also concluded that 
the Petitioner did establish that the Beneficiary's entry will substantially beneT prospTtively the 
United States, but the only basis the Director cited to support this conclusion is the popularity I l rather than any discussion of how the Beneficiary's work coaching a 
children's team would inherently be of substantial benefit not only to that team but to the United States. 
Therefore, there is reason to question both of these determinations by the Director. Nevertheless, 
because the Petitioner has not met the threshold requirement of sustained national or international 
acclaim, we need not explore these two other determinations in greater detail. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
who have reached the top of their respective fields, and who remain there at the time of filing. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Beneficiary previously played at what amounts to a major 
league level, but his career as a player ended years ago, and the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's subsequent work has attracted recognition indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of his current field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record minimally documents the Beneficiary's coaching 
work, and does not indicate that he is a top coach, or coach advisor, in the field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17041555 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a video journalist, 1 seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The Petitioner states that the term "video journalist " is "[u]sed interchang eably with videographer or camera person." 
Copies of press credentials in the record refer to the Petitioner as a "senior cameraman " and "senior videographer. " 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for several television networks in Banglresh, inrudingl ITV and 
Asian TV. When he filed the petition, the Petitioner was working for TV in the United States as 
an 1-1 nonimmigrant representative of foreign information media, and making a documentary forl I I I The Petitioner states tha~ I TV seeks to employ him. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (i) and (iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other six claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (i) and (iv). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of Dhaka Reporters Unity (DRU), the Law Reporters Forum (LRF), and the I I The Petitioner submits letters from officials of DRU 
and the LRF, but these letters do not establish the associations' membership requirements. A letter from 
thec=J indicates that the Petitioner is "the senior and founding member ofc=::J' which does not 
indicate that others had a role in admitting him into the organization. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's memberships, but determined that the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence to show that the associations have membership requirements that conform to the 
language of the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitio1er emjhasizes that he "is a senior member [ of] both DRU and LRF" and "is a 
founding member [ of] The Petitioner states that hisl resporse to a request for evidence (RFE) 
included "supplemental letters from DRU and LRF as well as sic] documentation," but he does not 
elaborate or explain how these materials show that the Petitioner meets the requirements of the criterion. 
Review of the submitted materials confirms that they do not establish the respective associations' 
membership requirements. 
The Petitioner describes the DRU as "the largest association of reporters working in Dhaka," andc=J' s 
general secretary describes that organization as "the largest and only such organization registered by the 
government in Bangladesh." The large size of an organization tends to argue against exclusive, restrictive 
membership requirements of the kind contemplated by the regulation. 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of any association that requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits English translations of articles about him that appeared in Prothom-Alo North 
America, Weekly Ajkal, Weekly Bornomala, Weekly Probash, Jugantor, and Bangladesh Protidin. Some 
of the articles report that the Petitioner is workin on a documenta about the I I a 
1971 benefit show organized b)\r-------, ________ ____J The other submitted articles report 
on the Petitioner's receipt of the~--~Award. 
Background information shows that WeeklvAikal, Weekly Bornomala, and Weekly Pro bash are published 
within a few blocks of one another in thel I New York, with readerships 
consisting of Bangladeshi immigrants in the New York area. Consistent with this information, 
advertisements in these newspapers promote local I !businesses such as food markets and realtors. 
3 
The Petitioner submits evidence that the Daily Prothom Alo "is one of the largest Bangla newspapers 
with over 5.3 million readers per day," but the Petitioner has not shown that any article about him 
appeared in that newspaper. The article about him appeared in Prothom Alo North America, a related but 
separate publication for which the Petitioner has not provided any circulation statistics. 
Several of the articles refer to the Petitioner with adjectives such as "renowned" and "famous," but we 
note that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence of media coverage while he was in Bangladesh. All 
of the articles appeared in U.S.-based publications i~ 12019, a few weeks before the filing of 
the petition; there is no evidence of earlier media coverage. 
The Petitioner did not provide information about the other media outlets. 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the publications appear to be narrowly targeted local 
newspapers that do not meet the regulatory requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner states that 
Bangladesh's permanent representative to the United Nations called the establishment of Prothom Alo 
North America "a positive achievement for the expatriate Bangladeshis" ( a quotation from a Prothom Alo 
story rather than directly from the official), but this praise does not establish that Prothom Alo North 
America qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Rather, it is 
consistent with the narrow focus of the New York publication. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that his work appeared on "one of Bangladesh's leading television 
networks." His own work as a journalist, however, is not published material about him, and does not 
relate to his work. 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner states that he "has worked with leading television channels and won many awards from 
distinguished institutions for his incredible work. ... Arguably, Petitioner's work has been exhibited in 
prestigious venues to distinguished audiences." A television news program is not an artistic exhibition 
or showcase. The Petitioner submits photographs showing him with various dignitaries and working at 
locations such as the United Nations General Assembly Hall, but his work was not on display at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases at those locations, and his work does not transform from informational to artistic 
because of where he performed that work. 
In the RFE, the Director asked the Petitioner to identify and document the artistic exhibitions or showcases 
that displayed his work. In response, the Petitioner acknowledged that "there should be evidence of 
Petitioner's work on display at an event that was artistic in nature," but did not explain how his evidence 
satisfies that criterion. Instead, he stated that the Petitioner's documentaries and his reporting from 
international political conferences "would also constitute display of his work." The Petitioner states that, 
if this evidence does not meet the letter of the regulation, "then the evidence will be offered under 
comparable evidence" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
4 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his work has been 
displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases as the regulation requires. The Director acknowledged the 
Petitioner's request for consideration as comparable evidence, but the Director stated that the Petitioner 
did not establish that the criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that showings of "his award-winning documentaries ... are analogous 
to display or exhibition of [his] work." Documentary films can be shown in an artistic context, such as 
film festivals, but the Petitioner does not submit evidence of this kind. News broadcasts serve an 
informational purpose, rather than an artistic one, and do not constitute qualifying displays. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner states that he meets this criterion as a senior founding member of theO and "also had 
a critical role for Asian TV andl !Television." The Petitioner does not submit independent 
evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of the~; a letter from the organization's own general 
secretary is not first-hand evidence of how others outside the dorganizrion perceive the□ Also, the 
letter does not describe the nature of the Petitioner's role at th 
The Petitioner establishes that he held ~------~' titles at various television networks in 
Bangladesh, but he does not show that his roles were critical for those networks at the organizational 
level. He led camera teams, but did not establish that the camera teams were organizations with 
distinguished reputations in their own right. 
Letters from colleagues indicate that these individuals hold the Petitioner in high regard, but, while they 
list various positions the Petitioner has held in his career, they do not explain how these roles were leading 
or critical to the entities that employed him. 
The president of the DRU states that the Petitioner "has been playing an important role in the training and 
award selection committee" that grants "awards in several categories each year." Here again, the official 
does not explain how activities with the committee is critical to the DRU at the organizational level. 
The Director concluded that, although "[t]he evidence shows that the petitioner is and was important to 
his current and former employers, ... the evidence does not establish that his role was leading or critical 
... to the entire organization, as opposed to a department, assignment, or project within the organization." 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats prior assertions about his role as a founding senior member of thel~-~ 
and his journalistic work covering "significant international events." The Petitioner does not directly 
address or rebut the Director's conclusions. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
A letter fro~ !Television indicates that the Petitioner earned a basic salary of 84,000 Bangladeshi 
taka (Tk) plus various benefits. Appointment letters from various employers show monthly salary 
amounts ofTk25,000 in 2000; Tk50,000 in 2006; and Tk73,000 in 2011. 
AO official states that the Petitioner is a "highly paid video journalist by the standards of Bangladesh," 
but the record does not establish what those standards are. The Petitioner submits a 2013 table from the 
Eighth Newspaper Wage Board of Bangladesh's Ministry oflnformation, setting a wage range for "Grade 
2" journalists (which includes the titles "Chief Photo Journalist" and "Senior Photo Journalist") from 
Tk24,106 to Tk39,856. The Petitioner also submits a newspaper article that cites figures from the table. 
The Petitioner asserts, on appeal, that the Director did not give enough weight to this table. But the table 
does not explain the significance of the ranges (for example, whether the ranges cover variations for 
experience, achievement, or other factors). More significantly, the table specifically relates to newspaper 
reporters and editors. The Petitioner does not establish that the Newspaper Wage Board has jurisdiction 
over wages paid to television journalists, and he provides no basis for comparing his salary to that of 
others in his occupation. 
The Petitioner has not established that he commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner states that "[h ]is track record of over two (2) decades in the industry is a testament to 
his commercial success," and that "his accomplishments as a prolific video journalist ... should be 
considered in regards to his stature and extraordinary prowess in the field of expertise." The Petitioner, 
however, identifies no documentary evidence of the kind described in the regulation. There is no 
presumption that length of experience in the occupation implies commercial success, and the Petitioner 
does not attempt to establish that a video journalist works in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner's employment as a video journalist with major television channels in Bangladesh is not 
tantamount to commercial success in the performing arts, and the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
on a par with box office receipts or recording sales as the regulation requires. The Petitioner's 
evidence does not satisfy any element of the wording of the regulation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established a career with prominent employers, and 
he has submitted letters from various colleagues who assert that he is well-known in his field. The 
record, however, lacks the "extensive documentation" required by the statute to corroborate these 
claims, and the stated credentials of several of those colleagues appear to eclipse those of the 
Petitioner. The Petitioner has not established the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrated a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17041987 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has played the viola in various orchestras since 1990. Most of his earliest positions were 
in various orchestras inl I In 2002, he joined the~-----~ Symphony, reaching the 
principal viola chair in 2008. The Petitioner later played principal viola with the I I 
Symphony Orchestra and, starting in 2016, thd O lorchestra. The Petitioner 
entered the United States in 2017 as an 0-1 nonimmigrant, following the approval of a petition filed by I I 
We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the 
record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
The Petitioner makes inconsistent claims about his most recent employment. When the Petitioner 
filed the petition in January 2020, he claimed to still be working forl lfrom "2016-present." 
But in a subsequent response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner asserts that he played for 
c===] "from 2016 -2019 ," meaning the employment ended before he filed the petition. I I 
l_J's 2016 job offer letter specifies a three-year term of employment, but because this letter predates 
the employment, it does not establish that I I actually employed the Petitioner until 2019. An 
itinerary in the record ends at September 2018, which is broadly consistent with U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) records showing that the approval of the 0-1 nonimmigrant petition 
was revoked in September 2018. 
In a July 2019 letter, the manager of thel I Symphony Orchestra states that the 
Petitioner "has played in the orchestra for one season." The present record of proceeding does not 
indicate that the Petitioner was authorized to work in the United States between the September 2018 
revocation of his 0-1 status and January 2020 when he filed the petition. 
2 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (vii) and (viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (i). The Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (x), and therefore we consider that issue to 
be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two criteria. 
We will discuss the remaining claimed criterion below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's sole argument on appeal is that he received a nationally recognized award inl~--~ 
and that the Director erred by concluding otherwise. 
In October 2000,_J ---.--~-_,I including the Petitioner, received a certificate which reads, in part: 
This certificate was awarded to 
For the best performance of the I ts composer's work 
In the 
~-------~NATIONAL MUSIC COMPETITION 
(STRING QUARTETS) 
A separate certificate from the same competition indicates that the quartet "was awarded the First Prize." 
It is not clear whether the two certificates refer to the same prize. Although the competition took place 
inl I the certificates are almost entirelj in English. The Petitioner asserts that this "music 
competition is nationally recognized inll' but he submits no evidence to support this claim. The 
assertion that the prize "is named after ... a historically famousl I Composer" is not evidence of 
the prize's recognition. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the prize is nationally 
or internationally recognized. The Director noted, by way of example, that the Petitioner did not show 
that the awarding of the prize attracted any media coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the concert "predates online record keeping -especially forl~--~ 
so finding publications or news stories about the concert is impossible." The Petitioner makes this 
assertion with no evidence. Even ifwe were to accept the Petitioner's unsupported claim that there were 
no online news publications inl I in 2000, this would not rule out the existence of other forms of 
news archives. 
The Petitioner submits a new letter from the founder of thd ..... _______ _____.l in~I -----~ 
Because the RFE did not mention the awards criterion or specifically request any further evidence relating 
to awards, we will consider this new submission now. The individual states that I I founded the I l Music Competition; that the competition included a concert broadcast to "half a 
million international listeners"; and that "[t]he concert was hailed as a success by the International Artist 
Managers' Association in the UK during their I !Orchestras Summit in 2001." 
The Petitioner does not corroborate any of these claims, put forward in a letter written 20 years after the 
fact. A letter from one of the festival's own founders is not evidence of recognition outside the 
organization. And even then, the letter emphasizes the response to the concert rather than the recognition 
accorded to the awards. The Petitioner claims that this individual "states that first prize in the competition 
is recognized as a very high honor," but the letter includes no such assertion about the prize. 
The Petitioner does not establish that the Director erred with respect to the prize that the Petitioner 
received in October 2000. Because this issue is the only stated basis for the appeal, the Petitioner has not 
otherwise established eligibility or overcome the denial of the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for those who are individually at 
the top of their respective fields. Affiliation with well-known establishments is one of many factors 
to be taken into consideration, but does not establish eligibility on its face. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16775641 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an investment firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary 
ability in the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement of this classification through 
evidence of a major internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider, asserting that the Director did not consider all of the evidence in the record and submitting 
additional reference letters and other evidence. The Director dismissed both motions. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which bas been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is business executive with several years of experience in investment banking. His 
most recent employment abroad involved the management of an investment fund focused on 
agribusiness in Russia, and he served on the board of agribusiness companies. He is currently 
employed by the Petitioner in the United States as its Chieflnvestment Officer, and intends to continue 
in this role. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met one of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material written about him 
and his work as an investment executive. On appeal, 1 the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also 
meets an additional five criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
1 The Petitioner indicated on Form I-290B and in an accompanying letter that it would submit a brief within 30 days of 
filing its appeal. The appeal was submitted on June 23, 2020, and as of the date of this decision, an appeal brief has not 
been received by our office. Our decision will therefore be based upon the basis statement included on Form I-2908. 
2 The Petitioner's basis statement submitted on appeal does not challenge or address the Director's conclusion that the 
evidence did not establish that the Beneficiary met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We therefore consider this 
issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. AttJ' Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has met the initial evidentiary requirement for the 
requested classification and is not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claimed in its motion and in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), that 
honors received by two companies that employed the Beneficiary, 
andl lwere sufficient to meet this criterion. In his ~in-i-ti_a_l _d_e-c1-. s-io_n_,_t_h_e_D_i_r-ec_t_o_r_f_ou_n_d~ 
that the record did not include evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of these awards, that they were 
granted based upon excellence in the field of business, or that they were nationally or internationally 
recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the new evidence submitted with his motion established that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. This new evidence, which was listed but not analyz..,......_ .................... .., 
Director's most recent decision, included a reference letter from CEO of I I and what appear to be press releases concerning the awards for~ _____ __. He 
states that in 2007, the self-re ulatin organization National Association of Stock Market Participants 
NAUFOR awarded and three diplomas: I L 
.__ _______ __., and.__ ____________ ___, However, we note that the record 
does not include eviden f h se diplomas, and an apparent press release article posted on the website 
finrnarket.ru and dated 2007 only lists I I as a nominee in the three cate ories 
mentioned b with the headline stating that the winners of the L...--------r--,.J 
i-------1----.....1 will be announced onl I. This evidence does therefore not confirm 
~----' 's statement, asl lis not named in the article, and I l is not 
named as an award winner but a nominee. In addition, even if these awards had been confirmed, the 
Beneficiary's employer is named as a nominee, not the Beneficiary. 3 For all of these reasons, the 
record does not include evidence showing that the Beneficiary received the I I awards. ~-------~ 
The new evidence submitted on motion also included two articles, one dated I I 20 IO and 
another dated I I 2008, which narnel I Company as a "laureate" 
of the Russian Collective Investment Market corn etition. The 20 IO article states that the company 
won in the category, and the 2008 article indicates that it won 
in the ~------------' category. We again note that the evidence indicates that a 
company received these awards, not the Beneficiary. In addition, no information is provided regarding 
the source and publication of these articles. Neither lists an author, and there is no indication that the 
2010 article was posted on a website or was published in print form. The 2008 article was obtained 
from the website tatcenter.ru, but no information is provided about the nature of this website. We 
therefore conclude that this evidence does not show that the Beneficiary received either award. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14. Page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
In addition, a letter was submitted with the motion which was signed byl I, CEO ofl~-~ 
c=]and a professional associate of the Beneficiary. He writes that the Beneficiary was a member of 
the board of directors ot1 I the managing company ofl I and that "thanks to the 
personal contribution of [the Beneficiary] and his team," the company's products were awarded the I I sign. This is similar to the statement made in a letter from I I I [ managing partner at a Russian investment and 
management fund, who indicates that both this designation and a ~-----------~ were bestowed onl las a result of the Beneficiary's work for the company. However, as with 
the awards discussed above, the record does not include evidence of any certificate, diploma or other 
physical evidence verifying thatl !received these awards. Also, these awards, like those above, 
are asserted to have been granted to the Beneficiary's employer, not to him personally. Finally, there 
is no indication in the record that these awards are granted based upon excellence in the field of 
business, or that they are nationally or internationally recognized. 
Turning to an award which the Petitioner asserted was given to the Beneficiary, we note that it did not 
specifically address its previous claim to this criterion based upon the his designation as a I I ~------------~ on motion or appeal. However, we agree with the Director's 
determination in his initial decision that the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the 
Beneficiary received this award, or that it is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Accordingly, after review of the evidence submitted, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's membership in NAUFOR and his election as a board 
member of that association qualifies under this criterion. Concerning membership in the association, 
it submitted articles from several sources which supplement the information included in its regulations 
and articles of association, which were submitted in response to the Director's RFE. An article from 
the website opentrainer.ru states that in addition to being a resident of the Russian Federation and 
having a securities license from the Central Bank of Russia, members must "submit an application for 
membership, pay a contribution of 30,000 rubles, and also pay annual fees, which for various 
organizations range from 100 to 540 thousand rubles per year ... " Another article, from investlb.com, 
states that "contributions are differentiated depending on the available licenses." However, 
membership requirements based only on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education 
or experience, standardized test scores, grade point average, recommendations by colleagues or current 
members, or payment of dues, do not satisfy this criterion, as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. In addition, the record does not include information regarding the 
requirements for obtaining a securities license from the Central Bank of Russia. We therefore 
conclude that the Beneficiary's membership in NAUFOR does not meet this criterion. 
As for his service as a board member for this organization, the Petitioner refers again to the letter from I I who indicates that he was a member of the board of directors from 2004 to 2008, and 
4 
that Beneficiary served in the same role from 2005 to 2008.4 He writes that the board is elected every 
two years by members during the association's general meeting, and consisted of 22 members during 
this period. This evidence repeats information contained within NAUFOR's regulations, articles of 
association, and press release submitted in response the Director's RFE, and does not specify any 
outstanding achievements that board members must have completed in order to be nominated as a 
candidate or elected as a member of the board of directors. Although the Petitioner focused on the 
reputation of the association in his motion brief, this is not one of the elements found in the plain 
language of this criterion. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion through either his general membership or his election to the board of NAUFOR. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director concluded that the record included evidence of published material which met this 
criterion. Upon review, we note that many of the articles which were submitted include quotations 
from the Benefici~but are not about him. For example, an article posted on the website 
agroinvestor.ru on 2015 titled 1 I quotes him as 
the managing partner of which owns the subject company. The Beneficiary explains the market 
conditions in China, but the article is not about him, but about the company's desire to enter the 
Chinese pork market. Another example was an article published in Vedomosti titled I I I , I' in which the Beneficiary is one of several interviewed regarding the raising of the minimum 
equity standard for management companies in Russia. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not 
meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
One article submitted by the Petitioner is about the Beneficiary, as it focuses on him and his career in 
the field. An interview which appeared in the I I 2015 print edition ofl I as well as 
on the magazine's website, features him on the cover and includes a short biography, and goes into 
great depth regarding the investment plans ofl I As to whether! I is a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, the Petitioner did not submit information about its print 
circulation, but included a website report from SimilarWeb. The report indicates tha~ I 
has a country rank of 32,227 and a category rank (Business and Industry) of 41,296, with over 89,000 
monthly visits. In comparison, the same report for vedomosti.ru shows a country rank of 315, with 
more than 11.2 million monthly visits. This evidence regarding! I is insufficient to 
establish that it is a major professional trade medium, given its ranking in the business category, or a 
major medium, especially when compared with vedomosti.ru. We therefore disagree with the 
Director's decision and conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
4 We note that an article posted on the website mfd.ru oJ l 2005 indicate~ that the ~enetkiary elected to the board 
ofl lalong with 16 others for a one-year term, and that I lis not listed as one of the 
other board members. This evidence, in addition to other evidence in the record regarding NAUFOR, is therefore 
inconsistent in several ways with! . Is statement about the Beneficiary's term of service as a NAUFOR board 
member, and we will consider only his two-year term beginning onl ~006 as evidenced by the submitted press 
release from NAUFOR's website. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, an individual must establish that they served in either a leading or 
critical role, and that the organization or establishment for which they served in such a role had a 
distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the individual was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role was leading. On the other 
hand, if the individual claims to have served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. Here, it is not the title of the individual's role, but rather their performance 
in the role that determines whether the role was critical. 5 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's role withe=] and its holdings I I andl I 
,___ ______ ___,as well as withl land I I and NAUFOR, were 
leading or critical for those organizations. In his initial decision, the Director acknowledged the 
recommendation letters in the record which described the Beneficiary's work and role, but concluded 
that they lacked sufficient detail to show that his role was leading or critical. On motion, the Petitioner 
submitted three additional reference letters in support of this criterion, while asserting that the 
previously submitted letters included details regarding the Beneficiary's role. 
Per a reference letter froml !Managing Partner 0-11----...,_d Chairman ot1 I's 
board of directors, the Beneficiary was a board member for both and its co orate parent 
I I as well as a managing partner for I I According to~--~-- ..... his duties 
in these roles included raising financing, researching suppliers and domestic and overseas partners, 
supervising merger and acquisition transactions, and financial management oft~e two comnanies. He 
states that under the Beneficiary's "close involvement in the management of_ }' three 
pork production and processing complexes were developed. In addition, "due to the personal 
contribution of [the Beneficiary] and his team,'i ~ecame the0 largest pork producer in the 
Russian Federation and earned the I I recognition. Copies of minutes of 
several meetings of the I I board of directors confirms that the Beneficiary took part in such 
decisions, and that he thus played a leading role for the company. However, the record does not 
include further information about the 1 I seal and its requirements or prestige 
which would demonstrate that it brought a distinguished reputation to the company. In addition, the 
record indicates that the award given to the company which is translated as both 1 t' and I I is given to "consumers of electricity from the regional energy retail companies of the 
Inter RAO Group," but also does not include further information which show that it is a prestigious or 
coveted award in the industry. Although the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary played a leading 
role forl I it has not established that the company enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
Turning more broadly to the Beneficia 's role for~andl I, the Petitioner also submitted 
a reference letter fro irector oft I He writes that he worked with the ~~"---~---.----~ 
Beneficiary in his role as head of 's audit committee and member of its board of directors 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. P. 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 
from 2011, and that the Beneficiary was "instrumental to Os growth." I I states that the 
Beneficiary's "expertise in investment management, financial control and agribusiness has been 
invaluable to growing the holclinscompanr- .. " However, he does not describe with sufficient detail 
how the Beneficiary ledc=] or_ _ or played a critical role in the successes en·o ed by these 
companies. Similarly, a letter fro I President and CEO of also does 
~ovide details to support his assertion that the Beneficiary played a critical role for.__ __ _. and 
L_J nor does he explain how he gained personal knowledge of the internal decisions and processes 
of these companies. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's role forl lthe Petitioner also references letters from the 
Beneficiary's business associates who state that they are familiar with this aspect of his career in 
business. I I chairman of the board of I I confirms that the 
Beneficiary served as head of the bank's investment division and also as General Director of0 
.__ _____ _.lfrom 20066 to January 2008. He writes that the Beneficiary's duties in these positions 
included development of business plans for these businesses, organizing and coordinating the issuance 
of the bank's Eurobonds, and developing and introducing index-based funds and portfolio 
management products. He also notes the award nominations for .__ ______ ~ an~ I 
,__ __ _.I which include six regional award nominations in addition to the three national nominations 
discussed above. 
A very similar letter was written b~ I Se;ccn=io:;..:r'--V~ic:;..:e;....;P~r:;..:e=s=id=e=n=t....;;a.;.;.tl..,..___,.----~~H=e~n~o~te=s...., 
that the Beneficiary "made it possible to establish ofl lan~.___ ______ ____.I 
from the ground up ... ," noting that the two companies employed 150 workers at the end of 2007 and 
managed assets of more than 10 billion rubles. Based on these reference letters, evidence regarding 
the nomination of I land its subsidiary for regional and national awards, and other 
evidence regarding the company, we conclude that the Beneficiary's employment with this company 
meets the requirements of this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner also focused in its motion on the Beneficiary's service with NAUFOR, as 
supported by the reference letter from I I and other evidence about the organization. As 
previously noted, the evidence shows that the Beneficiary was elected as a board member for a two­
year term beginning onl I 2006. I ) ~ states that the Beneficiary was a member of 
two subcommittees, which he indicates "developed a number of the most important operation 
standards for brokerage, dealer and management companies" as well as "regulatory documents for the 
stock market." He goes on to indicate that these standards "formed the basis for federal legislation on 
securities and markets." However, he does not indicate that the Beneficiary served in a leadership role 
as one of 22 members of NA UFO R's board of directors, nor does the letter or other evidence in the 
record provide specifics about his role in the drafting of standards and regulatory documents for the 
securities field. 
Based upon the evidence of the Beneficiary's role withl land~------~I we 
disagree with the Director's decision and find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
6 An employment contract between~! _____ ~land the Beneficiary, submitted in response to the Director's RFE, 
is dated August I 0, 2006. 
7 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to show that an individual meets this criterion, the evidence must establish that their salary is 
high relative to others working in the field working in the same occupation and location. 7 The 
Petitioner submitted translated copies of Form 2-NDFL, Statement oflncome of an Individual, for the 
years 2013, 2014, and 2015. Those forms indicate that in those years, the Beneficij received a salary 
from thel I and! 0 J , , 0 J O ~ of approximately 
P 9.3M, P 11.6M, and P 11.2M, respectively. As previously noted, the record indicates that he served 
as a member of the I I board of directors during this period, as well as a managing partner of 
I J ,vhich was the main shareholder o~ I 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a salary report from payscale.com as a reference. That report, dated 
October 8, 2019, showed the annual salary range for a CEO inl I with 10 years of experience. 
It indicated that the median salary for this position and location was P3M, and that 75% of those earned 
less than Pl IM. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a second report from 
salaryexplorer.com. This report indicated that the median salary for CEOs in Russia was 
approximately P2.65M, and that salaries at the 75th percentile were approximately P3.42M. It also 
indicated that inl lthe average CEO salary was P3.02M, but did not provide figures for the 
high or low end of the salary range. 
The Director found in his initial decision that this evidence was insufficient to show that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. On motion, the Petitioner referred to the report from 
salaryexplorer.com as new evidence, despite having already submitted it with its RFE response, and 
did not otherwise present new arguments. Upon review, we note that both salary reTorts indicate that 
the Beneficiary's salary in these three years was well above average for a CEO in_ I but are 
inconsistent regarding the highest salaries for this position, with the 75% salary from payscale.com 
greatly exceeding the maximum national salary from salaryexplorer.com of approximately P 4M, and 
the payscale.com report not reflecting the salaries of top CEOs. We also note that it is not apparent 
whether the amounts paid to the Beneficiary byl I included salary for his service as a board 
member alone or also included his pay as a managing partner ofl I In addition, the different 
"income codes" displayed on the Forms 2-NDFL are not explained, which calls into question whether 
the forms show both salary and bonuses and other forms of remuneration which are not accounted for 
in the submitted salary reports. Therefore, after review, we agree with the Director conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the evidence that the Beneficiary's salary was 
high compared to other similarly situated individuals in the field of business. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
7 See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salaiy of other NHL defensemen). 
8 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and 
case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US 
Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service 
centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between 
a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. 
La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
As noted above, although we find that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the 
criterion relating to his leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, we 
withdraw the Director's conclusion that he meets the criterion regarding published material about him. 
In addition, we conclude that he also does not meet three additional criteria. Although the Petitioner 
asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to his 
contributions of major significance to the field, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17184754 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al . I coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
had sustained national or international acclaim in his field and was one of the small percentage of 
those volleyball coaches at the top of the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed as al lathlete for several years as a member of teams in the top 
1 · Ukraine, Italy, France, and Greece. He is currently employed as a master coach with the 
thletic Club d/b/a I I and states that he wishes to continue working as a 
coach and athlete in the United States, with the goal of starting his ownl lclub. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser awards, membership in an 
association in his field, and his judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about him, original 
contributions of major significance to the field, and leading or critical roles for organizations with a 
distinguished reputation. 1 After reviewing all of the previously submitted evidence in the record, we 
disagree with the Director's conclusions regarding two criteria and partially withdraw his decision as 
detailed below. 2 
1 In counsel's brief: he did not contest the findings of the director regarding the criterion relating to a high salary at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) or offer additional arguments. We therefore consider this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda 
v. U.S. Att'.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 
at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30. 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on 
appeal to the AAO). 
2 We note that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence with his appeal brief. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opp01iunity to respond to that deficiency. the AAO will 
not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter ol Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ol 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore not consider this new evidence in our analysis. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner was a member of~l ___ ~I teams which received the 
highest awards in competition at the national level, including: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• I 2005-06, I 
2006-07, 
2007-08, 
2008-09 
2013-14 
2014-15 I Super~ League I I champion season, second place league cup,I.__ __ ___. 
I 
I second place season, second place leaguµc!J.JJt..!::::s;~= ... 
ond place season, champion league c......,....---.~ sec 
cha rnpion season, charn ion lea ue cu 
I second pla ce league cup,~------.-------.===;--->"' 
firs t place league cup, second place seaso .....__ _ ____. 
As the evidence shows that the Petitioner played an important role for these teams and was one of a 
small number of contributors to the award, we conclude that this evidence shows that he meets this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner also claimed thatl ~ a team he was a member of for the 
2016-17 and 2017-18 seasons, won third place in the I League championship, but we note 
that the evidence of this consists only of a page from a Wikipedia article. As there are no assurances 
about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia 
will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008). 3 In addition, a letter from the President of1 I does not mention this award, and the 
record does not include images of a trophy or certificate acknowledging the award. The Petitioner has 
therefore not established that the team received this award. 
The record also includes evidence of individual awards received by the Petitioner, which include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 2008,.__ _______ ____. tournament, Best Playerl I 
2015, Most Valuable Player, Garnes 5 and 9 ofl 1 , , 1 , I 
2016-17, I I League besJ player! of the regular season ("all-star tearn"j 
May 2017, Most Valuable Player 's Cup Tournament in~I ---------~ 
3 See also the online content from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_disclaimer, accessed on May 10, 
2021, and copy incorporated into the record of proceeding is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information ... 
. Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given aiiicle 
may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not conespond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
3 
The evidence shows that the I I League "all-star team" was selected by a jury of journalists 
and league coaches and reported in L 'Equipe, a national sports newspaper. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion upon his membership in the I I national men's 
.__ __ ___.I team. A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate 
eligibility for this criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous 
selection process. It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that he meets every element 
of a given criterion. We will not assume that every national team is sufficiently exclusive and requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their fields or disciplines. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I president of the l,r------,. ___ ___J 
Federation, who confirms that he was a member of the Ukrainian men's national I team from 
2009 to 2018. I I states that national team members are selected "on the competitive basis," 
and is based upon their "performance of target programs and plans of training for the corresponding 
year." He further writes that the coaches of the national team are responsible for choosing the athletes 
for the national team based upon "observing the players' acts during the game and through studying 
of their individual statistics during the game season, as well as the player's compliance with the 
playing type and model results of the competitive activities." I I does not identify any 
specific benchmarks required of national team members, and the letter does not explain how the 
"performance of target programs and plans of training" and "compliance with the playing type and 
model results" are outstanding achievements. While he notes that the Petitioner earned a "Master of 
Sports" title as a member of thd,__ __ ___,khampionship team, he does not indicate that this or other 
achievements were requirements or led directly to his selection to the national team. In addition,D I Is letter is not supported by any corroborating documentation such as official mies or selection 
procedures for the national team. We therefore disagree with the Director's conclusion and find that 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the.field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged that several articles about the Petitioner and hi~~------' 
career had been submitted, but he found that the evidence did not establish that any of the media in 
which these articles appeared were one of the qualifyins types under this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner focuses on articles published on thel J websitd I and sport.ua, as well 
as midilibre.fr and sport-fin.gr, and the interview of him carried on Greek television channel 
"Novasports." Although all of these media published articles about the Petitioner and his work as a 
4 
~--~I player, the evidence does not establish that any of them are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
In support of his assertion that these media are one of the qualifying types, the Petitioner submitted 
varyinJ sources of information. Regarding thel lua website, which published an interview of 
him o I 201 7, 4 as well as a brief story about his transfer tol ,I he included a website 
traffic report from SiteSTMT.com and another from websiteoutlook.com. These provided metrics 
such as "daily pageviews" (between 2,450 and 3,920) and ranks (612,029 and 449,133, respectively), 
but does not provide any other context showing that these websites qualify as mjjor meTa. Similarly, 
sport.ua published two interviews of the Petitioner, onl I 2008 and 2018, and he 
submitted information about this website from hostinfo.pw and similarweb.com. The former indicated 
that sport.ua has 53,935 visitors per day, while the latter charted "visits" per month at between 5 
million and IO million. While this information suggests that sport.ua is a more popular website than I I it does not establish that it qualifies as major media when compared to all media in 
I 
As mentioned above, the record also includes evidence from other media types that published material 
about the Petitioner and his work as al I athlete, including the French newspaper Midi Libre 
and the Greek television channel "Novasports." The information from the newspaper's website 
indicates that it is a regional newspaper, and that the entire portfolio of newspapers, magazines and 
internet sites maintained by the Journaux du Midi publishing group enjoys readership of 837,000 per 
day. This information is not specific to Midi Libre, and is insufficient to establish that it qualifies as 
major media. Nor is the information provided from the website of Novasports, which is marketing 
material and provides no relevant data to show that it is a major medium in Greece. 
The evidence also includes other articles about the Petitioner and hisl I career, published on 
websites such as hotsport.ua, sibsport.info, and~ _____ __, but he did not submit evidence to 
establish that these media were one of the qualifying types under this criteria. Therefore, based upon 
the analysis above, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his decision the Director concluded, based upon evidence of the Petitioner's qualification as a 
referee and his service as an honorary judge at al I tournament, that he meets this 
criterion. The evidence submitted in support of this criterion also includes the 0' s regulations 
4 The Petitioner also submitted an interview of the Petitioner published on this website oir:=] ?.020 in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, months after the petition was filed. Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 
8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(1). (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be 
approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi. 22 I&N Dec. 
169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille. 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), further provides that 
USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. We will 
therefore not consider this article in our analysis. 
5 
regarding! !referees, which describes the qualifications and age limits for referees but does 
not explain the role or duties of a referee. 
As evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others, an article orts.ua on 
02018 notes that the Petitioner was an honored guest of the........,. ____________ ___, 
tournament, and also served as a referee. In addition, a letter fro ~-.,.,..,.........,....,--,----....,...,... president of 
the I I states that this tournament was "held in compliance with the 
international rules of I of the I I and are serviced by the qualified referees." 
Although this evidence also does not explain the role of al 7 referee, we note that th~ I 
....._ _____________ ~ with whichl !stated the tournament complies 
indicates that the function of a referee, among other pre-match duties, is to "issue warnings to the 
teams; to sanction misconduct and delays," and to decide upon various faults by the players during the 
match. In other words, it indicates that~ !referee enforces the officia!L I rules, rather 
than judging the performance of the players by awarding points or exercising his judgment by 
determining a winner. As such, the Petitioner's service as a referee is not sufficient to establish that 
he participated as a judge of the work of othe~ I players or coaches, as opposed to ensuring 
that they followed the official rules. 6 We disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that a petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner stresses that he has made contributions to the field as a I I athlete and 
coach. As evidence of his coaching contributions, he refers to a letter froml I dated May 
8, 2020, which indicates that he served as an assistant coach ofthel !national men'sl I 
team during the 2016-17 season. Whil~ I indicates that the Petitioner is "a highly trained 
professional and has earned the great respect of his colleagues," he does not state that the Petitioner's 
performance as an assistant coach resulted in contributions that widely impacted or influenced the 
team, let alone the field ofl I We further note that this letter is not corroborated by other 
evidence of the Petitioner's role as an assistant coach during a period that he was competing as a player 
for this team, and was not mentioned inl I's initial correspondence. 
Turning to his contributions as al I athlete, the Petitioner focuses on the previously discussed 
evidence of his participation on several professional European teams as well as thtj I national 
team, including the statistics showing his performance in individual matches in European tournaments. 
Although the match statistics show that he played well in those matches and contributed to his teams' 
effort, they do not demonstrate that those athletic contributions impacted the overall field ofl I 
5 https:/....._ _________________ ~accessed on May 11, 20,_,, J~-~ 
6 The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his "Provisional Referee Ce1iificate" from USAI I but did not submit 
evidence that he has perfmmed as a referee in the United States. Fmiher, the evidence does not establish that participating 
as al I referee in the United States would satisfy this criterion. 
6 
The same can be said of the Petitioners designations as a "best player" and "most valuable player" for 
games, tournaments, and seasons. In all cases, his acknowledged athletic efforts contributed to the I I team for which he was competing, and have not been shown to have made a broader, 
significant impact on the sport as a whole. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a critical role is one in which an individual has contributed in a way that is if significant 
importance to the outcome of an organization's activities. 7 In his decision, the Director stated that 
reference letters submitted by the Petitioner did not provide sufficient detail regarding his role for the I lteams that he played for to meet this criterion. He further noted that the evidence was not 
sufficient to show that his current employer, thel .-------,I has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on his role as anl I for the numerous I !teams that 
he played for during his career, claiming that it "is already a critical position in itself" While he refers 
to newly submitted evidence, the original submission also included information regarding the I I I I position. That evidence, from! • , l states that ~-----------~ ~~-.-------.---~ and are "considered to be the most reliable," but does not indicate that 
the position is more or less important or critical than any other on al I team. More importantly, 
unlike a leading role which may be inherent in a specific position or title, it is a petitioner's 
contribution to an organization's success which determines whether he or she has played a critical role 
to that organization, not the nature of the role itself. As the Petitioner notes.I I is a team sport, 
and we do not find the evidence sufficient to show that he meets this criterion based upon his position 
alone. 
The Petitioner next focuses on newly submitted match reports which focus on individual games for 
three of the teams for which he played, which we will also not consider. We note that he received 
"Most Valuable Player" awards for individual matches in the 2015C7 Cup while plaving for I I as well as for thdf s Cup Tournament inl lfor th{ I 
national team. He also prevTous'Iy submitted evidence showing his ranking in certain I I 
metrics for specific matches. But these awards and statistics do not establish that the Petitioner played 
a critical role in any overall success these teams enjoyed over the course of an entirel I season, 
which is a more relevant gauge of the overall success of the organization. 
As noted in our analysis of the criterion relating to lesser awards, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that he was selected as one of the best players for the 2016-17 season in thel I 
League, one of twol I athletes so named. In addition, a letter from the president o~ I states 
that the Petitioner "contributed greatly to our top-notch sports team and its qualification for the 
European Cup, a first for the Club for nearly 10 years." However, this letter does not provide details 
about the criticality of the Petitioner's role fo~ I Therefore, this evidence does not establish 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
7 
that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for the team. Further, although the evidence 
indicates that the team was somewhat successful in the 2016-1 7 season, winning second place in the I lleague and returninf to the European Cup, it does not show that I I had built a 
distinguished reputation amongst I teams. 
The Petitioner also assert~ that he meets this criterion based upon his current role as a master coach 
with the I J The Director's decision noted that the reference letters, including that 
submitted by his current employer, were not sufficiently detailed to show that the Petitioner's role was 
leading or critical, and also concluded that the evidence did not establish that this organization enjoyed 
a distinguished reputation. On apveal, the Petitioner refers to a letter dated July 12, 2020, from the I ~xecutive Director,L I who states that he is one of four coaches employed 
by the club who is qualified to teach its highest level high school athletes. He goes on to state that the 
Petitioner coached the club's top team in the previous year, which was cut short by the COVID 19 
pandemic, and is scheduled to do so in the following year. This letter primarily indicates that the 
Petitioner's presence is important to the future recrnitment and development of athletes, and does not 
show that the Petitioner has already played a critical role that has been shown to be of importance to 
any success enjoyed by thel I organization. 
A second letter froml ldated August 8, 2020, states that the Petitioner directed the clubs 
boys national I I program, and that under his direction the teams qualified for the national 
tournament, with one earning a silver medal at the tournament. However, although the evidence 
includes tournament brackets with players' names hiPhlighted by the Petitioner, this evidence includes 
no reference to the Petition or thel ! We therefore agree with the Director that the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner has played a leading or critical role for 
his current employer. 
In addition, we also agree that the record does not include evidence which establishes that thd~--~ [ I has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that "it is one of the best l ., lin Texas, also well known around the U.S." However, he does not refer to specific 
evidence to support this assertion, either on appeal or in his response to the Director's request for 
evidence. The evidence of a single third place win in a tournament which is directly tied to thd I ~-~I is insufficient to show that it enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the reasons provided in the above analysis, we conclude that the evidence does not establish 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
After our review and partial withdrawal of the Director's decision, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet 
at least three of the ten criteria. We therefore need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. However, as the Director conducted a final merits 
analysis which the Petitioner asserts misapplied USCIS policy and precedent, we will briefly review 
those assertions and the merits of the Petitioner's claim under this standard. 
8 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his final merits determination by not considering the 
totality of the evidence, but reviewed each criterion individually. We note that while the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner met three criteria, his discussion of the evidence related to these and other 
criteria in the final merits determination applied the elements from these criteria again instead of 
considering whether, as part of the balance of the record, it established that the Petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The record shows that the Petitioner competed as ~ I player at the national level in his own 
country, and went on to compete at the top professional level in other European countries as well. 
However, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, although the Petitioner demonstrated that he received a level of national 
acclaim as an athlete, most notably withl I he did not show that this acclaim was sustained or 
that his achievements were frequently or widely reported upon in major sports or news media. Further, 
although he representedl I as a national team member and competed for nationally successful 
professional teams inl land Greece, the record does not establish that his participation in these 
teams' national success placed him among the small percentage oti I athletes at the top of the 
field. The evidence does not show that these teams were among those achieving success at the highest 
levels ofi !competition, or that his individual performance elevated him to the same status as 
athletes successfully competing at the highest international level. The evidence was also insufficient 
to show that he was compensated at a rate commensurate with that of an elite professiona~ I 
athlete. 
Regarding his work as al lcoach, which he intends to continue in the United States, the 
Petitioner states on appeal that the Director failed to consider his recent transition to this new phase of 
his career, and relies upon our non-precedent decision in Matter of K-S-Y-(AAO Mar. 9 2016). This 
decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Although that decision involved 
a similar transition from coach to athlete as is present here, we found that the petitioner in that case 
had established sustained acclaim and status near the top of his field through his success as an athlete 
at the national and international level. Here, we do not conclude that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability as a I I athlete, or as a coach. Further, in considTing I ~ his area of expertise includes the coaching otj I athletes, we noted above that 
L__Js letter concerning his role as an assistant coach for thel I national team is not 
corroborated by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
9 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17039622 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research associate in environmental chemistry , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This fust preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in µublic health at the Universi o in 2015 and 
undertook postdoctoral training atl_ I Universit .-------------'---fr-o_m_2_0_15-to_2_0_1_7__,. She is now a 
postdoctoral research associate at the University o in H-lB nonimmigrant status. 
The Petitioner's research concerns I I pollutants. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has shown, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that she meets all three claimed criteria. There is no dispute that she has made original 
contributions; the question is whether those contributions are of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner is the co-author of highly cited articles relating to the detection of certain pollutants in the I I The record indicates that other researchers are using the data that the Petitioner gathered, 
as well as detection and measurement techniques that the Petitioner developed or refined. We will not 
repeat the highly technical details here, but the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that some of her contributions have major significance in the field. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility. 
Given the structure of the regulations and the two-step analysis described in Kazarian, the satisfaction of 
three evidentiary criteria does not automatically or presumptively establish eligibility. Some criteria are 
much more easily satisfied than others, and we must consider each piece of evidence through the lens of 
sustained acclaim. 
The record as a whole does not establish sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner has 
written scholarly articles and peer reviewed manuscripts by others, but the record does not show that she 
has done so at a level that elevates her above most others in her field, or that these activities amount to 
rare privileges rather than expected activities of a researcher in that field. Some activities satisfy 
regulatory criteria, but in a manner that neither reflects prior acclaim nor results in subsequent acclaim. 
For example, the publication of scholarly articles, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), is not a 
privilege reserved for top researchers. Rather, it appears to be routine and expected in many academic 
disciplines. 
Likewise, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is broad enough to encompass a wide range of 
activities that involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, 
sustained acclaim in the field. The record shows that the Petitioner was reviewing manuscripts while 
she was still a doctoral student, and that peer review is a routine part of the publication process rather than 
a rare privilege extended only to top experts. (A document in the record refers to "2 million researchers" 
performing peer review, and describes efforts to recruit still more reviewers.) The Petitioner has not 
explained why her review of a high number of manuscripts equates to acclaim. She has not shown that 
the most accomplished and recognized researchers perform more peer review. 
The Petitioner has solicited letters from other researchers who speak highly of her talents and 
contributions, but the Petitioner does not establish that these views represent a consensus that 
demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim. In this context, we note that at the time of filing, 
the Petitioner stated that she seeks employment as an assistant professor atl !University, 
or an unspecified position with thel I of the U.S. Environmental Protection 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
Agency itj I The record contains no evidence that either of those prospective employers 
offered her a position. The Petitioner has not established a demand for her services commensurate with 
her claimed reputation in the field. Related to the above point, her status as a postdoctoral research 
associate indicates that, at the time of filing, the Petitioner was still undergoing training ( albeit at a high 
level) under the direction of another researcher. It is possible for a researcher to reach the top of the field 
at such a relatively early stage of one's career, but there is no presumption that involvement in influential 
research at the postdoctoral stage is indicative ofindividual acclaim. More often, it results from affiliation 
with a mentor or laboratory with an already-established reputation. Employment with a prestigious 
institution shows that the institution has a high opinion of one's qualifications, but such employment does 
not inherently confer national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner places significant emphasis on citations to her published work. The record does not 
establish a pattern of consistently high citation of that work. Rather, three of her 32 articles account for 
half the citations as of the filing date. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that her most recent 
work before the filing date at the University I I has attracted comparable attention. The 
Petitioner submits charts showing percentile rankings of article citations, but owing to the nature of such 
data, even a very small number of citations can reach a high percentile during the period immediately 
following publication. 
While the Petitioner has shown that she participated in well-received research, the record as a whole does 
not show that she has attained the sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16965277 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alternative, met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed 
the Petitioner's appeal, and two subsequent combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a third combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits new evidence along with copies of previously submitted evidence. The Petitioner 
describes the new evidence and asserts that we did not sufficiently consider evidence submitted earlier. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening the 
proceeding, or established that our decision to dismiss his second motion to reopen and reconsider was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy. 
2 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner holds a I I black belt in theL..._ ____ ___,----.-------' style of 
karate, having competed at various levels since 2002. The Petitioner joined.__ __ ..... s national karate 
team in 2012, and claimed to still be a member of that team in 2018 although he had been in the United 
States in 2017 as a B-1 visitor, a nonimmigrant classification that does not include employment 
authorization. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that he met none of those criteria. After a de novo review of the 
record, we reached the same conclusions and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2019. 
The Petitioner then filed two combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. We dismissed both 
combined motions, in April 2020 and November 2020 respectively. The matter is now before us on a 
third combined motion to reopen and to reconsider, which includes a one-page statement, two letters, 
copies of documents, and photographs from a competition inl I Japan. Some of these materials 
are copies of materials that the Petitioner submitted previously. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner submits photographs from .. ._ ____________ __.competition 
that took place inl lin 2014, which the Petitioner previously termed a "world championship." 
The Petitioner has claimed that he won a gold medal at the 2014 event, and thereby received a major, 
internationally recognized award as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We devoted a full page 
of discussion to this issue in our May 2019 appellate decision. In our November 2020 motion decision, 
we stated: 
While the record contains evidence related to the Petitioner's participation m a 
competition inl I inl 12014, it does not support [the] claim that this was a 
world championship event in karate, that the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event, or 
that the I !national karate team received a bronze medal at the event. 
The photographs from the event do not intrinsically establish the significance of the competition or 
recognition of prizes awarded there. 
The motion includes a new letter from the president of.__ ________________ ..... 
Florida. The Petitioner states that the letter "provid[ es] details about the championship that took place 
inl I Japan." The meaning of parts of the letter is not entirely clear. The letter reads, in part: 
In 2014 [ the Petitioner] returned to meet us ,__in-I __ ~I J=a..._.pan and it is very good highlight 
that [the Petitioner] won Gold Medal in th~ lworld Championship. 
3 
The world championship of .... 1 ~~-- ..... 1 is held once every five years and has 
prestigious tournament in the world. 
[The Petitioner] took part in the group of eighteen and up age, where he won the title 
of the world champion by winning all his competitors. 
It is considerable, that he won the well-known athlete, who represented Japan. It is a 
great result, that he won the Japan athlete during the world championship holding in 
Japan. 
The owner of the club in Florida does not claim or establish authority to speak on behalf of the 
organizers of thd I event. As a result, his comments are not strong evidence that the event was a 
world championship competition -not every international match is a world championship -or that 
the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event. The submitted photographs show the Petitioner holding 
a small trophy and a certificate, but there is no medal visible. The translation of the certificate calls 
the Petitioner "the champion of the private championship of boys," but does not indicate that he won 
a world championship title. 
We note that the Florida club owner asserts that the Petitioner "took part in the group of eighteen and 
up age," but the Petitioner was 17 years old irl ! 2014 when the event took place (hence the 
certificate's reference to the "championship of boys"). This apparent error casts farther doubt on the 
individual's reliability as a source of factual information about the event. 
If the Petitioner's title at the 2014 I I competition is a major, internationally recognized prize as 
he claims, then it is reasonable to expect evidence that the Petitioner's performance at the event 
received significant international attention at the time. A letter from a third party, written six years 
after the fact, does not establish such recognition. 
Apart from the letter discussed above, the Petitioner states: "I am also submitting evidence that I am 
recognized as a well-known person by the Facebook." The Petitioner does not identify the evidence 
that supports this claim. The exhibits submitted on motion do not include any printouts from 
Facebook, or statistics showing that his Facebook page has a sizeable following, consistent with 
sustained acclaim. The exhibits submitted on motion do not include any evident references to 
Facebook at all. 
The Petitioner has not established good cause for reopening the proceeding, and therefore we will 
dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his previous 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy 
and was incorrect at the time of that decision. 
4 
The Petitioner's second motion, filed in May 2020, included a letter from the president ofthel.__ __ __. 
National Karate Federation. In our November 2020 decision, we determined that the Petitioner had 
apparently submitted this letter "to address the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the 
leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii)." We determined that the letter does not 
"elaborate on the selection process fotj !national team members. Therefore, it does not overcome 
our previous determination that the record lacks evidence that membership on the team requires 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts." We also concluded 
that the record did not corroborate the official's "claim that [the 20141 I competition] was a world 
championship event in karate, that the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event, or that thel I 
national karate team received a bronze medal at the event." 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner states: 
I am submitting documentation to show that the decision rendered did not consider the 
evidence already in the record, specifically, that thel !National Karate Team is 
well recognized by the Minis7 of Sports and Education irj I that the letter from 
the president of [the j Karate Federation ... provided detailed explanation and 
description on the election process of the members to the National Karate Team and my 
role in it. 
The Petitioner does not elaborate further on the above points. 
Although the Petitioner now asserts that the letter contains a "detailed explanation and description [ of] 
the election process of the members to the National Karate Team," we can find no such explanation 
or description in the letter, and the Petitioner does not quote any such passage from the letter. 
The letter does discuss the nature of the Petitioner's role on the team, but we devoted two paragraphs 
of our November 2020 decision to that subject. The Petitioner does not explain how we erred in our 
prior decision in this respect. The general assertion that we did not give the letter enough consideration 
is not sufficient to warrant reconsideration. 
The motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) 
requires dismissal of the motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18407301 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts competitor and consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts competitor andl I coach/consultant for competitions, stunts, and 
related training. He intends to enter the United States to work as ~ I martial arts coach. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these 
evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief statement asserting that the Director's decision was arbitrary 
and capricious, noting that the Director "failed to acknowledge qualified evidence that supported the 
Petition." He asserts that he meets more than three of the evidentiary criteria; specifically, the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, his original contributions of major significance to 
his field, and his high salary. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does 
not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has "won competitions at the highest level in Australia, Japan, Abu 
Dhabi, USA, Brazil, London, and many more." The record reflects that the Petitioner has received 
numerous medals and accolades in the fieldl I In support of the petition, the Petitioner 
submitted a list of medals and awards that he received from 2009 to 2018, and also submitted 
documentation indicating that he was either a competitor or finalist at other competitions. For 
2 
example, the list indicates that he was the gold medalist in various compet1t10ns including the 
Australian Federation ofl I Pan Pacific (Black Belt) in 2013 and the I !Industries (Black Belt) in 2016. It farther indicates that he was the Japanese! I 
Trials winner in 2017, thel I based super fight event) champion in 2017, and a quarter 
finalist in thel I World Championship in 2018. The list also indicates that he was the gold medalist 
in various lower belt (blue, purple, and brown) competitions hosted by organizations such as the 
International! I and thel I World Pro. 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provided photographs of medals, screenshots from the websites of the event 
organizers, a Wikipedia article discussing the W orl~ I Championship, an article discussing the 
top ten prestigiou~ I competitions for competitors, and articles confirming his results in 
competitions. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted letters from various event 
organizers discussing the Petitioner's career achievements and attesting to the prestigious reputations 
of their respective competitions.1 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted was insufficient to meet the plain language on 
this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly challenge the Director's determination. 
Instead, the Petitioner generally asserts that the Director disregarded qualified evidence, such as 
industry publication articles identifying the top competitions in the field. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. As noted by the Director, while the letters from 
various event organizations speak highly of the Petitioner and his accomplishments, they do not 
demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field. While several of the authors recount the various medals he has received while competing 
at their events, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that his receipt of these medals, many of 
which were earned at lower belt levels, are nationally or internationally recognized in the martial arts 
field. 
For example, a letter froml I Head Organizer o~f....;.'t_he.c..,..._~-------------r~st=a~te.......,s 
that the Petitioner won various competitions hosted by ·n 2017 and 2018, and that th_,__ __ 
World Championships has international media coverage during each event. Another letter from I I who claims to be al I expert recounts the winning record of the Pet1~.t-io_n_e~r 
and claims that most competitions organized by tho and the I I are "the most prestigious 
com etitions withinl I Further, the Petitioner relies on an article in Eastern Europe 
hich lists various competitions and identifies organizations such asl I andl I 
L_ ________________ .....----..J.L.J,!.IJ.._...>J.U.l<.IJ,.LLl..li,.....l.Ll.u.....L.u......u .. ,above all others." The article, 
federations in the world, and ~--------~ howe1er, lalso indicates that there are various 
many tournaments worldwide. 
A prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition from the competition in which 
it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued the award. Rather, national and 
international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the field 
nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
3 
but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Additionally, unsupported 
conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a particular prize 
or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence of the various competitions and events in the field, and 
their perception within the field, the limited evidence of media coverage garnered by the Petitioner's 
awards in such competitions is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition 
associated with the medals he received at the various competitions discussed herein. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of web articles and industry statements identifying top 
competitions in the field, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's receipt of 
the claimed medals and awards were nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of these 
awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 2 The 
record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field ofi I as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not submitted 
documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, material must be published in a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, and must be about a petitioner and relate to their work 
in their field of expertise. In addition, the evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and evidence in a foreign language must comply with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3) relating to foll English language translations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. 
In addition to determining that some material was not about the Petitioner, the Director also noted that 
several articles lacked the name of the author, where others were not supported by citation statistics. Upon 
review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted evidence of material about him published inl _ 
Magazine, along with a letter from~ _____ ___, the magazine's editor and publisher.3 Although I !indicates that the publication is "distributed on newsstands worldwide," the Petitioner did 
not submit any material establishing the circulation statistics fo~ !Magazine, nor did he 
provide other circulation statistics in which to compare with this publication. As noted by the Director, 
the evidence relating to this publication is in the form of a letter from the publication itself rather than 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in dete1mining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field.) 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the published material here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 
published circulation statistics from an official or independent website or other publicly available 
source. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's disregard of this and other publisher letters was 
erroneous, arguing that "such information is a direct source and has the highest probative value." We 
disagree. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, 
No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) aff'd, 317 F. App'x 
680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on a company's self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). 
Further, the regulation requires evidence that the published material appear in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. However, the Petitioner relies on information from numerous 
websites, including! "" I which do not indicate that the websites are one of the regulatory 
required publication types. While Internet sites are technically accessible nationally and even 
internationally, we will not presume that every Internet site has significant national or international 
viewership. The act of posting an article online does not necessarily constitute publication in major 
media. 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, and despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence 
reflects published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as an athlete/competitor. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in thefieldfor 
which classification is sought [ emphasis added]." In the RFE, the Director requested clarification from 
the Petitioner regarding his intended field of endeavor, and the Petitioner affirmed that he intended to 
enter the United States as ~ I coach. Therefore, any published material as a player is not within the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) 
(upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of expertise). 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding reflect, that the Petitioner has 
had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Additional Criteria 
As we noted above, the Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he meets two additional criteria. 
However, since we have concluded that he does not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 
(iii), he cannot meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria to establish that he satisfies the initial 
evidentiary requirement for this classification, and we therefore reserve these issues. 4 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18334469 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The matter is 
now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner must 
specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our 
decision. 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or establish that he has received a major internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Prior to the denial of the petition, and on appeal, the Petitioner claimed that he could 
satisfy three of the ten criteria, relating to original contributions of major significance, leading or critical 
roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation, or high salary or other remuneration in relation 
to others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii) and (ix). The Director determined that he did 
not satisfy any of the claimed criteria and denied the petition. 
In dismissing the Petitioner's a1;eal, we concluded that he had demonstrated that he performed in a 
critical role with thel ., I and established the distinguished reputation of that 
organization, thereby satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, we agreed with 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that he satisfies 
the two remaining claimed criteria, and therefore he did not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for 
this classification. 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence is sufficient to demonstrate 
that he satisfies up to five of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
two criteria that he did not address or claim he could meet previously. Specifically, he now claims that 
he can meet the criteria relating to memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, 
2 
and published materials in professional, major trade publications, or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
These new eligibility claims are not properly before us on a motion to reconsider. A motion does not 
entail de nova review of the full record of proceeding. To warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must 
specify the issues raised on appeal that were decided in error, by establishing errors of law or policy ( as 
documented by any relevant precedent decisions or other cited law or policy) or errors of fact (through a 
showing the decision was incorrect based on the record as it stood at the time of the prior decision). 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3); Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). The Petitioner has not 
established how we erred as a matter of fact, law, or policy by failing to consider eligibility claims that 
he did not make at the time of filing and that were not before us on appeal. Therefore, we will not address 
the Petitioner's claim that he can satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
The Petitioner also contests our determination that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to 
demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires him to establish 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to 
others in his field. In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the I ~ 
\ !summarizing his financial terms of service as a senior representative of thd 
[inl !Russia between August 2009 and August 2015.1 The letter indicates that he 
received monthly gross wages of $6000, as well as up to $300 in monthly representative fees, $2300 in 
monthly rent expenses, an "education fund," and "children education funding at the race of service." 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that his children's private school inl billed thel I I O ~ for their 2014-2015 school year tuition and fees. Finally, the Petitioner provided data 
regarding "Average Russian NGO Salaries" from Simply Hired, which indicates an average annual salary 
of $25,000.2 
We determined that the evidence was insufficient to satisfy this criterion for several reasons. First, we 
emphasized that, in order to establish that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration, the Petitioner must provide documentary evidence of his actual earnings. We noted that 
the letter from thd I was insufficient to document his earnings for his period of 
employment in Russia. Specifically, we note that it was not accompanied by earnings statements, payroll 
or bank records, tax documentation or other evidence demonstrating the total salary or total remuneration 
he received from his employer during his period of employment in Russia. 
We also concluded that, even if the Petitioner had adequately documented his total earnings from that 
period, he did not submit sufficient comparative data to establish that he had commanded a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others. We reviewed the evidence he provided regarding 
1 We observed in our prior decision that the letter from the.__ _______ __, indicates that the Petitioner received 
the stated compensation package as a senior representative in Russia from August 2009 until August 2015. However, 
other evidence in the record, including the Petitioner's resume and the employment history he provided on his concrrentlyl 
filed Form T-485, AVplication to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Statu. s, indicates that he worked for the 
~-----~inl I only from January 2014 until August 2015, and was based in other countries prior to 
2014. The Petitioner has not attempted to resolve this apparent inconsistency on motion. 
2 The record also contains documentation of the Petitioner's earnings in the United States for 2017; however. we 
determined that the record did not demonstrate that he earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration based 
on this evidence. He does not address his U.S.-based earnings on motion. 
3 
"average Russian NGO salaries" from Simply Hired and noted that the publisher of the data 
acknowledged that such salaries "can vary greatly." We also emphasized that the data from Simply Hired 
did not include information regarding high salaries in the field as a point of comparison, noting that it is 
not sufficient for the Petitioner to demonstrate that his salary was "above average" compared to all persons 
working in any type of position for an NGO in Russia. 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that the letter from the~---------~is sufficient to 
establish that he received a total monthly remuneration of $13,425 per month or $161,100 annually, for a 
period of six years, from August 2009 until August 2015. He cites to an unpublished AAO decision in 
support of his assertion that a letter from an individual's employer has been deemed sufficient to 
document earnings under this eligibility criterion. The decision he references was not published as a 
precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may 
be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Further, although the Petitioner asserts that we deemed a letter from an 
employer to be acceptable evidence of a petitioner's earnings, we ultimately determined that the petitioner 
in the cited matter had not adequately documented her actual salary. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that we erred as a matter oflaw or USCIS policy by finding the letter from the ~---------~ to be insufficient to document his salary or total remuneration for the period in question. 
The Petitioner also contests our determination that the evidence he provided regarding "average Russian 
NGO salaries" did not provide sufficient comparative data to establish that he earned a high salary or 
significantly high total remuneration relative to others in his field. The Petitioner emphasizes that he 
was not able to locate any other source of data regarding NGO executive salaries in Russia, noting that 
"[ u ]nlike the United States, Israel and most European countries, Russia does not have a Department of 
Labor that publishes government-sourced information on salaries in various fields or industries." He 
states that it was "not reasonable or equitable" for USCIS to make an adverse decision regarding this 
criterion based on the lack of quality data on comparable salaries. Finally, the Petitioner maintains that 
his annual remuneration of $161,000, as reflected in the letter from his employer, "is a high 
compensation for an NGO executive anywhere in the world." 
If a petitioner claims to meet this criterion, then the burden is on that petitioner to provide appropriate 
evidence. The plain language of this regulatory criterion requires evidence of "a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." Therefore, it is 
reasonable to expect the Petitioner to submit objective earnings data showing that he has earned a 
"high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing similar work. 
See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). Further, persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in that country. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
While the Petitioner maintains that he submitted the only salary information available for "NGO 
executives" in Russia, the information he provided is not for executive positions, but rather appears to 
4 
be an average salary that is based on all data available for NGO positions, including lower-level 
positions. Further the data is accompanied by a note from the publisher indicating there is great 
variation in salaries within the Russian NGO field based on company, location, industry, and 
experience. The Petitioner has not cited to any law, USCIS policy or precedent decision that would 
require us to compare his total remuneration of $161,000 (most of which was paid in benefits) as an 
NGO executive to an average base salary that includes every type of NGO position. While the base 
salary figure provided in the letter from thel I ($72,000 annually) is higher 
than the average salary figure provided in the data from Simply Hired, that data is not specific to 
experienced professionals working in senior positions in the Petitioner's field and does not provide an 
appropriate basis for comparison. 
Further, the Petitioner claims that he earned total compensation of $161,000 for a period of six years and 
that this is a high compensation for a comparable position in his field "anywhere in the world." This 
broad assertion is not supported by sufficient evidence and does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden to 
demonstrate that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As noted above, there are 
inconsistencies in the record as to where the Petitioner worked between 2009 and 2015. Ifhe did in fact 
work in countries other than Russia during this period, as stated in his resume and on his Form 1-485, he 
could have submitted comparative salary data from those countries. The comparative salary data 
provided for Russia was inadequate to demonstrate that his salary or total remuneration was high 
compared to similarly employed workers in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in determining that he did not satisfy the eligibility criterion at 8 
C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner contests our determination that the previously submitted 
evidence was insufficient to establish that he meets the criterion related to original contributions of 
major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, even if we determined that he meets that 
criterion, he could not establish that he meets the initial evidence requirement for this classification by 
satisfying at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore would not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of his appeal. Accordingly, we will reserve this issue. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or USCIS policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of 
that decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18488051 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 12, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an author, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a writer and author currently working and residing in Guatemala. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria pertaining to the judging the work of others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that the Director's decision "discounts the 
significance of the evidence through merely skepticism ." He further asserts that he meets at least three 
additional evidentiary criteria; specifically, the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, 
memberships, and original contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not 
pursued his initial claim that he meets the criterion related to commercial success in the performing 
arts under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address 
this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion related to judging. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has 
served as a juror for an international literature contest and a poetry contest. By having some influence 
over the selection of award winners, the Petitioner participated as a judge as described in the 
regulation . However, the record does not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence. While the Director 
acknowledged his submission of documentation establishing his receipt of numerous awards, he 
2 
determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the referenced awards were nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determination was erroneous, noting that the letters 
and documentation submitted in support of the petition establish the national and international 
recognition of the awards beyond the awarrng rtities. For example, the Petitioner asserts that his 
selection as the Guatemalan Delegate to the International PEN Congress required him to meet a 
rigorous selection criteria, as explained in a letter from .__ _________ ___. of the PEN 
Guatemala Center. He further asserts that his receipt of two awards from the National Association of 
Guatemalan Writers (the.__ _____ ____, in 1993 and the National Award for.__ ______ ~ 
in 1996) constitute nationally recognized awards as both recognition for his literary achievements and 
his career as a university professor. He also provides evidence of his receipt of thel I Medal in 
2006 and thel IA ward in 2011, along with numerous other certificates recognizing his excellence 
in the field of academics. 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provided copies of certificates, pho~~gr•pr ~f medals, two article excerpts 
from what appear to be Guatemalan publications discussing th International PEN Congress, and 
an expert opinion letter froml l a professor at University! I In 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted letters from individuals 
associated with the awarding organizations discussing the Petitioner's career achievements and 
attesting to the prestigious reputations of their respective organizations. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. As noted by the Director, while the letters from 
various awarding organizations speak highly of the Petitioner and his accomplishments, they do not 
demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field. While several of the letter writers recount the various certificates or awards the Petitioner 
has received from their respective organizations, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that his 
receipt of these awards and accolades are nationally or internationally recognized in the literary field. 
For example, a sworn declaration byl I who served as thel lof the National 
Association of Writers and Friends of the National Bank of Guatemala, attests to the fact that the 
Petitioner was the recipient of the I t award and the National Award forl I I 11 lstates that the association's pubhc acknowledgement of the Petitioner as a national 
writer is an honor bestowed upon individuals who contribute to national culture through their literary 
work, and that the I ]is awarded only to a small group of Guatemalan writers who stand out 
for their contributions in literary works. A letter froml L a writer, poeJ radir host and 
cultural promoter based inl I comments on the Petitioner's receipt of th award in 
2011 "as a worth= Guatemalan artist," noting that he was ersonally present at the event. A letter 
fro ml • J professor and member of the~-~--- of the National School of Agriculture 
of Guatemala, states that the Petitioner was granted the Medal by the organization in 2005 in 
recognition of his illustrious career as a writer. notes that the Petitioner also served as a 
professor for and.__ ___________ ____,of the National School of Agriculture until his 
retirement in 2007. The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml 11 I 
.__ _______ ..,.he College of Agricultural Engineers of Guatemala and member of the General 
Assembly of Presidents of the Professional Associations of Guatemala, confirming that the Petitioner 
3 
was named .__ ________ __. in 2016 for his "important contributions to the general culture 
of our country and the world." 
While each of these letters confirms that the Petitioner received an award or a form of recognition for 
his various literary ( and academic) contributions from their respective organizations, they do not 
establish that his receipt of such honors constitutes awards that are nationally or internationally 
recognized. A prize or an award does not garner national or international recognition from the 
competition in which it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued the award. 
Rather, national and international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes 
of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; 
for example but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Additionally, 
unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a 
particular prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence of various events and engagement in the literary field, 
and their perception within the field, the limited evidence of media coverage garnered by the 
Petitioner's awards in such activities is insufficient to establish the level of national or international 
recognition associated with the awards and recognition he received from the various organizations 
discussed herein. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of excerpts from Guatemalan 
newspapers discussing the I I PEN International Congress, there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's invitation to participate in the congress was nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The letter from I I a professor atl I University, comments on the Petitioner's 
literary and academic achievements. ~------~ states that the Petitioner "has received 
international recognitions for excellence in the field of Latin American literature" by virtue of his 
selection to attend thel PEN International Congress, and in a second letter submitted on appeal, 
she farther comments on the Petitioner's two awards from the National Association of Guatemalan 
Writers, noting that "this only farther illustrates the prestige enjoyed by [the petitioner] on a national 
level." While these letters praise the Petitioner's literary accomplishments,! ts 
conclusory assertions regarding the level of national and international recognition bestowed by such 
honors are not supported by independent, objective evidence. 
While the above materials, and the others in the record, 1 confirm the Petitioner's receipt of various 
awards and honors, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards 
won. 2 The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the literary field, as required. Moreover, it appears that some of the 
certificates referenced, such as the "Certificate of Distinguished University Professor" and "Plaque of 
Emeritus Professor o~._ __ _.t do not pertain to his proposed field of endeavor, as they recognize his 
academic achievements as a university professor and not his literary accomplishments. 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in dete1mining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed his membership in the following associations: 
• PEN International; 
• Editorial Council, Universidadl Ide Guatemala; 
• Guatemala National Association of Writers and Friends of National Books; 
• Editorial Council, PEN Guatemala; 
• ~-------~and 
• Asociacion de Esritores Lationamericanos (ADELA) 
After reviewing the Petitioner's material, the Director determined that he did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion because he did not establish that the associations required outstanding 
achievements as a condition of membership or that admittance was determined by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the field. Specifically, the Director determined that while the record 
contained letters from individuals discussing the membership requirements for the respective 
associations, they were not supported by corroborating evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that 
the support letters previously submitted by various association members demonstrate that he meets 
this criterion, and argues that the Director's request to view bylaws or constitutions of the associations 
was erroneous. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that any 
of the claimed organizations require outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. For 
example, the Petitioner presented evidence that he was a member of the editorial councils of PEN 
International and PEN Guatemala, and relied on a letter from I I, I I PEN 
Guatemala, who outlined the membership requirements for these organizations. Whilel I 
states that membership in both PEN International and PEN Guatemala "is granted to writers 
recognized nationally and internationally, who have at least two outstanding works published and 
submitted to the General Assembly of the PEN Guatemala Center by at least two distinguished 
members of said assembly," no independent documentation to support these assertions was submitted. 
Similarly, a letter from I ,I I I PEN Guatemala Center, 
summarized the requirements for membership and election to the editorial council, but did not 
supplement his assertions with documentation from the organization confirming these requirements. 
And a letter froml 11 I ADELA, states the criteria for admission "are the 
following: 1) Literary genre of your work, 2) awards or recognitions, 3) participation in events, 
4)associations to which you belong or have belonged and 5) the titles of your literary work for which 
you must send a photograph of the covers of your books." This letter is also not supported by 
independent, objective evidence of ADELA's membership requirements. Additionally, we note that 
the statements byl I and the other letter writers do not demonstrate that membership in their 
respective organizations constitutes a membership contemplated by the regulation, as these vague 
5 
requirements do not indicate that they require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
While the referenced letters confirm the Petitioner's claimed memberships in the above-referenced 
associations, along with their missions, he failed to submit evidence of the membership requirements 
for these associations. 3 We will not presume exclusive membership requirements from the general 
reputation of a given association, as the association's reputation may derive from its size, the number 
of symposiums it hosts or other factors independent of the exclusive nature of its membership. The 
record lacks documentation, such as bylaws, membership requirements, or other appropriate evidence, 
establishing that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields.4 
On appeal, the Petitioner additionally refers to his participation as a judge/member of the Fulbright 
Commission at the US Embassy in Guatemala, his jury service for an international literature contest 
and national poetry contest, and his selection to serve as a commentator on several books. He asserts 
that the Director erred by not considering these memberships, and notes that his selection "to serve in 
these capacities is evidence of his recognition as an extraordinary writer." The regulation at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is a separate criterion pertaining to judging. While some of these activities might 
also be relevant to whether the Petitioner has satisfied the membership criterion, he must demonstrate 
the relevance of his judging activities to this criterion. The record does not contain evidence to 
establish this relevance. 
For example, the Petitioner failed to submit evidence to establish that any of the named entities above 
constitute "associations" which have members admitted as anticipated by the regulation. In the 
alternative, if we were to accept the named entities as qualifying associations under the regulation, the 
Petitioner provides no evidence of the membership requirements for these associations. Further, the plain 
language of the regulation requires evidence that membership in the association, and not a subsequent 
selection to a committee or jury panel, requires outstanding achievement. 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies the 
regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that his authorship of 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the letters here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 Although the Director specifically requested documentation such as the relevant sections of the bylaws and constitutions 
to demonstrate the membership requirements of the respective organizations and associations, the Petitioner declined to 
submit such evidence. As the record does not contain official documentation of the associations' membership criteria, we 
cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's memberships are qualifying. Failure to submit requested evidence which 
precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
5 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
6 
various literary works, and several reference letters commenting on such works, demonstrate his 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of his literary works through recommendation letters praising him for his contributions , the 
authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's literary and academic achievements but do not demonstrate 
that his contributions in the literary field have made the required impact in thf field On anne::il, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director discounted the expert opinion letter from ] as it 
pertains to this criteria, and asserts that the Director's conclusion regarding whether his work was of 
major significance was erroneous . 
The first letter froml I describes the Petitioner's success as an author of poetry and 
novels addressing the "complex ethnic and cultural make-up" of Guatemala and statr that all of the 
Petitioner's work is "original, compelling, and significant." While [ _ asserts that the 
Petitioner's work has impacted the field of Latin American literature, she does not explain how the 
Petitioner's work constitutes a contribution of major significance in the literary field. 
In her second letter submitted on appealJ lstates that "there is no doubt in my mind 
that [the Petitioner] is one of the most significant members of his generation of writers from 
Guatemala. I base this judgment on having read several of his works, which I found to be rich and of 
the highest quality." Whilel !recognizes the Petitioner's talents within her letters, she 
does not provide the nexus between his talents and the manner in which he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements, 
including his career as both a university professor and an author, and focus on his accomplishments 
and talents. However , the authors do not provide a description of how the Petitioner 's authored works, 
individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance with the regulation. The 
letters, solicited from the Petitioner 's colleagues, primarily contain broad attestations of the 
significance of the Petitioner's work without providing specific examples of original contributions that 
rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner 's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value .. 6 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion .. 7 USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements . 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner 's novels and 
poems have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply stating that the 
work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has majorly impacted 
the field of Latin American literature is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his 
6 See id. 
7 See id.; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
accomplishments, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's literary works have had a 
demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not provide analysis of how any of his work as 
an author have significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner references documents, such as flyers 
and brochures for presentations and festivals, indicating that excerpts from his books and poems were 
recited. While this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's work has been presented in various 
venues, the record does not contain evidence to establish this relevance, such as evidence that these 
venues and festivals recognize literary works that have influenced the field as opposed to recognizing 
quality books and poems. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner has supplemented the appeal with evidence demonstrating that he 
published a new novel,I l inc=J 2021. While we acknowledge his 
claim that three recipients of the Guatemala National Literature Award wrote the forward to the book, 
and that there is a huge demand for the book and potential interest in adapting the story into a movie, 
the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). In 
this matter, the petition was filed in November 2019. We will therefore not consider this evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings , it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19099221 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we dismissed the appeal. We 
determined that the Petitioner met the requisite initial evidentiary requirements but concluded in a 
final merits determination that he did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed two motions, which we also dismissed. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combined motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that although he met the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small 
percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(2). 
In the Petitioner's first motion, a motion to reconsider, he argued that we overlooked or did not 
properly weigh certain evidence related to the awards, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v). He asserted that proper consideration of that evidence should 
have resulted in a conclusion in the final merits determination that he established his sustained acclaim 
and placement among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. In dismissing 
the motion to reconsider, we considered each of his claims in tum and explained how our appellate 
decision did in fact address the specific evidence he claimed had been overlooked. We observed that 
while the Petitioner may have disagreed with our assessment of that evidence, he did not establish that 
2 
we had overlooked it in adjudicating his appeal, or that we had misapplied law or users policy in our 
evaluation of such evidence. Finally, we acknowledged the Petitioner's request that we consider new 
evidence submitted for the first time in support of his motion to reconsider. We did not consider the 
new evidence, emphasizing that a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In his second motion, a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, the Petitioner once again 
claimed that we failed to consider certain evidence he submitted in support of the awards, judging and 
original contributions criteria at 8 e.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v) in adjudicating his appeal. The 
Petitioner, however, made no reference to our decision dismissing his previous motion to reconsider, 
but rather focused on our appellate decision. 
In dismissing the motion to reconsider, we observed that the Petitioner's brief was essentially identical 
to the previous brief submitted in support of his first motion. Although the Petitioner contended that 
we erred in our dismissal of the appeal, he did not attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in 
our most recent decision, or establish how we had misapplied the law or users policy in dismissing 
the previous motion to reconsider. Instead, the Petitioner maintained that we erred in our adjudication 
of the appeal by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy. Again, while our appellate 
decision was not the subject of the Petitioner's motion, we nevertheless addressed the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) and other 
pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian and binding users policy guidance. 
We determined that the Petitioner's assertions were not persuasive, noting that the Buletini decision does 
not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization of the adjudication process as including 
a final merits determination. 
Finally, with regard to the Petitioner's motion to reopen, we noted that he did not present new facts in 
his brief or submit any documentary evidence in support of the motion. Accordingly, we determined 
that he did not show proper cause to warrant reopening. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief in which he once again criticizes users policy 
guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant petitions1 and rejects our 
reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting a multi-part analysis that includes a final merits 
determination. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that we imposed requirements not found in the 
statutory language by requiring the Petitioner to demonstrate his eligibility within a final merits 
analysis in our appellate decision after determining that he met three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner, however, does not articulate a claim that we misapplied this policy in our adjudication 
of his prior motion to reconsider. Rather, he maintains that we erred in our adjudication of the prior 
motions, and the underlying appeal, by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy and asserts 
we should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court 
decisions in adjudicating our prior decisions. 
1 Current USCIS policy guidance governing extraordinary ability classification can be found at 6 USC1S Policy Manual 
F .2(B)(2), https://www .uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part- f-chapter-2. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that we misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit decision in Kazarian, as that decision 
only mentioned a second step in adjudicating petitions for individuals of extraordinary ability, the final 
merits determination, in dicta. The Petitioner argues that the proper analysis we should have applied 
was set forth in Buletini, a district court decision. The court in Buletini stated: 
Once it is established that the alien's evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria 
listed in [the regulation], the alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability unless 
the INS sets forth specific and substantiated reasons for its finding that the alien, despite 
having satisfied the criteria, does not meet the extraordinary ability standard. 
Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. Here, the Petitioner asserts that since he met at least three of the 
required criteria, he had demonstrated his extraordinary ability by a preponderance of the evidence, 
and argues that under Buletini, "it is the burden of USCIS to show, by competent and substantial 
evidence, that that the petitioner is nevertheless ineligible for the benefit sought." 
The Petitioner's assertions are not convincing . While the court expressed the requirement that USCIS 
explain its reasons, it does not suggest the overall burden of proof shifts to USCIS. 2 In visa petition 
proceedings, the burden of proof rests with the Petitioner. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Moreover, the court in Buletini 
did not reject the concept of evaluating the quality of the evidence at any time, and thus did not reject 
the possibility of a final merits determination. To the contrary, the court implicitly assumed some sort 
of final merits determination . It did not say that an officer was required to find extraordinary ability 
once they found the three initial evidentiary criteria satisfied. Rather, it said that, in such a case, the 
officer must explain their reasons if they ultimately find extraordinary ability is lacking, stating that 
that legacy INS, now USCIS, may deny a visa petition when it "sets forth specific and substantiated 
reasons for its finding that the alien, despite having satisfied the criteria, does not meet the 
extraordinary ability standard." Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. Thus, contrary to the Petitioner's 
assertions, Buletini and Kazarian are not in conflict. 
The Petitioner also asserts that we erred in not incorporating the analysis from other district court cases 
that preceded Kazarian, such as Muni v INS, 891 F Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995), Racine v. INS, 995 U.S. 
Dist. LEXIS 4336, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965 
(N.D. Ill. 1996), Russell v. INS, 2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 52 (E.D. Ill. Jan. 4, 2001) and Gulen v. 
Chernoff, 1980 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54607 (E.D. Pa. Jul 16, 2008). As noted in our prior decision, we 
are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United States district court in cases arising within 
the same district, in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian). See MatterofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning 
underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us; 
however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. Ultimately , the 
subsequent reasoning of a circuit court decision outweighs the reasoning of an earlier district court 
decision. Significantly, the Kazarian court cited Buletini for the nature of the individual's 
achievements in that case. Thus, the Kazarian court was aware of the decision in Buletini and still set 
forth a two-step procedure . 
2 See also Muni v. JNS, 891 F. Supp. 440,443 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (including a "Totality of the Evidence " section that, like 
Buletini, requires USCIS to explain why evidence that meets three criteria does not establish eligibility , while not 
suggesting the burden shifts to USCIS). 
4 
The legal citations offered by the Petitioner do not establish that our latest decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law, regulation, or USCIS policy, or was incorrect based on the evidence of 
record at the time of the decision. Further, as already discussed, the Petitioner's assertion that we 
should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than 
Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive. 
As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4) requires dismissal of the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Although the Petitioner indicated on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
that he was filing a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , the Petitioner has neither 
presented new facts in his brief nor submitted any documentary evidence in support of the instant 
motion. 
Accordingly , we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his prior motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The motions will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed . 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18487978 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 24, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an artist, studied at the National Academy of Fine Arts and Architecture, Department 
of Painting, inc=] Russia. He claims that he has worked as a painter and has displayed his works 
at numerous venues and exhibitions. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met six of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary criteria pertaining to judging 
the work of others and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, published material, and original contributions of major 
significance to his field. The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he meets the criteria 
related to memberships in associations in the field that require outstanding achievements of their 
members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not 
address this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criteria related to judging and artistic display. However, the record does 
not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence in his field, and provided 
a two-page list of his claimed awards in a letter accompanying the petition. The Director 
acknowledged his submission of various certificates of achievement, and documentation establishing 
his receipt of awards including a 2019 gold medal froml land a 2019 diploma from 
thd I Directorate for Internal Affairs, but determined that the 
Petitioner had not demonstrated that the referenced awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized. Although the Director requested additional evidence demonstrating that these awards 
were nationally or internationally recognized in a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner declined 
to submit such evidence. Instead, the Petitioner submitted documentation demonstrating his receipt 
of additional awards that he received subsequent to the filing of the etition which the Director 
declined to consider. 1 The Petitioner also submitted a letter from Fine Arts Chair 
at the.__ ________ ___. stating that the Petitioner won a gold medal at th ~---~Fine 
Art exhibition contest. However, no corroborating evidence documenting the Petitioner's receipt of 
this award or demonstrating its national or international recognition was submitted. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous because he "has submitted 
extensive evidence demonstrating the national significance of his awards." He argues that "the 
evidence on the record here unequivocally demonstrates that [his] prizes and/or awards are in no way 
local in nature, but rather are major, nationally and internationally recognized awards in the field of 
fine arts." 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. While the Petitioner submitted documentation 
demonstrating his receipt of several certificates, a diploma, and a gold medal, these documents alone 
do not demonstrate that he has won nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field. The Petitioner did not submit any other documentary evidence demonstrating 
that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence, despite the 
Director's request for such documentation. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires that 
"[documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." Simply submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt 
of prizes and awards is not sufficient to meet this criterion unless the Petitioner submits evidence 
establishing that the prizes and awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that he received the above-referenced prizes or awards, 
he did not submit sufficient documentary evidence, such as the selection criteria for the acclaim 
associated with the awards or evidence that the awards garnered of national or international-level 
1 As noted by the Director, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). As these prizes or 
awards were awarded subsequent to the filing of the petition in February 2020, they cannot establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility as of the date of filing, and we need not evaluate whether they otherwise satisfy the regulatory requirements of 
this criterion. 
3 
media coverage, to demonstrate that his prizes or awards satisfy the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, 
we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted several articles which the Director found insufficient. 
In the RFE, the Director noted that several of the submitted articles did not include the author, and further 
found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that the circulation of the submitted media was indicative 
of professional or major trade publications or other major media. In response, the Petitioner submitted 
additional articles, more information pertaining to the originally submitted articles, and a transcript of 
a radio interview. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence 
to satisfy this criterion, noting that several articles lacked the name of the author, where others were not 
supported by citation statistics. The Director also declined to afford evidentiary weight to the 
Petitioner's radio interview as it was not published material consistent with the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Regarding the additional documentation submitted in response 
to the RFE, the Director found these submissions insufficient. The Director noted that while the Petitioner 
asserted that the submitted articles were published in major media or professional or trade publications, 
he did not supplement the record with evidence such as published circulation statistics from an official 
or independent website or other publicly available source. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director failed to properly analyze information regarding the media, and asserts that he "has submitted 
detailed information regarding the circulation and popularity of the media at issue." 
We do not find the Petitioner's appellate assertions sufficient. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
two articles published in Russkaya Reklama, along with an overview of the publication from the 
organization itself. The Petitioner also supplemented the record in response to the RFE with 
information about Offer a Job and Zlagoda, publications which also featured articles about the 
4 
Petitioner. 2 The Director found this evidence insufficient to establish that these publications were 
professional or major trade publications or other major media as contemplated by the regulation, and 
we concur with that conclusion. The evidence relating to each of these publications is in the form of 
a statement from the publication itself rather than published circulation statistics from an official or 
independent website or other publicly available source. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at 
*7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we did not have 
to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status 
as major media). For these reasons, the referenced articles do not satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided a biographical excerpt published in Who 's Who in Ukraine, along with 
an excerpt from the organization's website explaining the nature of the publication. According to the 
publisher, Who's Who in Ukraine is a series of books that include the biographies of individuals in 
various sectors of economic activity in the Ukraine that are distributed free of charge, and such 
biographies are maintained in a digital encyclopedia at www.who-is-who.ua. According to this 
statement, the Petitioner's brief biography appeared along numerous other brief biographies in one of the 
various editions of the book, and appears along with approximately 150,000 other biographies in the 
publisher's digital encyclopedia. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), however, expressly 
requires evidence of the author of the published material. Here, it does not appear that the Petitioner's 
profile with no byline in a directory included among tens of thousands of other individuals is the type of 
published material contemplated by the regulation. The evidence does not reflect an author of the book 
or its date of publication (aside from the date range of 2003-2004), and as such does not meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that the acceptance of 
his artwork by the professional artistic community and its inclusion in various artistic forums and 
galleries, along with several reference letters commenting on these achievements, demonstrate his 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his artwork through recommendation letters praising him for his works, the authors do not provide 
specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of the articles and publications, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
5 
recount the Petitioner's artistic achievements but do not demonstrate that his contributions in the field 
of fine arts have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director's discounting of the numerous opinion letters he submitted was erroneous. Upon review of 
the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements of this criterion. 
For example, the letter froml I discussed previously above, indicates that the author, 
in his professional opinion, believes that the Petitioner's works "definitely display his ability to 
become a successful artist." While the letter shows promise in the Petitioner's artistic abilities, it does 
not establish how his artwork already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, 
rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
The updated letter froml I founder and owner of I I' inl I and 
Director and Board Member of the I I in I I New Jersey, 
discussed the occasions during which she viewed the Petitioner's work on display, and noted that she 
facilitated his invitation to display his work atl I While we acknowledge that the public 
display of his work is an impressive accomplishment, any art with exposure such as the Petitioner's 
can be viewed as contributing to the field. It must also be demonstrated that such contributions are of 
major significance in the field. To rise to the level of contributions of major significance, the 
Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on similar artists and similar works of art. 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met 
this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). Althougtt I 
recognizes the Petitioner's talents within her letter and asserts that the display of his work at the various 
venues she discusses is a significant accomplishment, she does not provide the nexus between his 
talents and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements and 
discuss his career as an artist. However, the authors do not provide a description of how the 
Petitioner's works of art, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance 
with the regulation. The letters, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues, primarily contain broad 
attestations of the Petitioner's talents and the significance of his work without providing specific 
examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion .. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. I 756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of his work, the record does not show 
how his paintings and artwork have had a majorly significant impact in the field, have significantly 
influenced the work of other artists, or otherwise equate to original artistic contributions of major 
significance in the field. The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's paintings and 
4 See id. 
5 See id.; see also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
works of a1i have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply stating that 
the work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has majorly impacted 
the field of fine arts is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments and 
their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's artwork has had 
a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major significance .. 6 
The opinions of experts in the field are not without weight and have been considered above. While 
such letters can provide important details about the Petitioner's skills, they cannot form the cornerstone 
of a successful extraordinary ability claim. USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron International , 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an alien's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on several of our non-precedent decision as well as Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) in support of the assertion that the Director should have accepted 
the expert opinion letters as evidence. Specifically, the Petitioner states that the court in Buletini "held 
that expert statements respecting the Petitioner's contributions must be fully considered, even if the 
expert opinions came from people who knew or had worked with the Beneficiary." Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1232. Regarding the contributions criterion, the Buletini court was referring to the 
Director's failure to consider all the forms of evidence that the Petitioner in that case submitted such 
as the book he authored, the Petitioner's medical dictionary he authored, and the Petitioner's study 
that appeared in the largest circulation newspaper in the Petitioner's home nation. Id. at 1232-1233. 
These are forms of evidence that the Buletini court determined the Director had failed to consider; the 
court did not indicate that the Director was required to discuss each and every piece of evidence within 
the record. Moreover, although the Petitioner references non-precedent decisions by our office, these 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not provide analysis of how any of his work as an artist has 
significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner references the fact that his work has been displayed in 
top artistic venues including thel I and points to the "unequivocal acceptance of his 
artwork by the professional artistic community." While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work 
has been displayed in various venues, the record does not contain evidence to establish this relevance, 
such as evidence that these venues and galleries recognize artwork that has influenced the field as 
opposed to recognizing quality paintings and other works of art. Here, while the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that his works are admired by others in the field, he has not demonstrated that they have 
influenced similar artists and similar works of art. Again, while any art with exposure such as the 
Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, he must also demonstrate that his contributions 
are of major significance . 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18109021 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in the field of robotics, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter of Chawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was a doctoral student in computer science and engineering at the 
University o~ I where she was also employed as a research associate. 1 The Petitioner has 
a master of science in robotics from University, a master of engineering in computer 
science from.__ _____ ---r-----.----------=...---- ....... and a bachelor's degree in computer 
science and mathematics fro .___ _ _,The record reflects that she is the founder and CEO ofl I 
.__ _ _.la U.S. company which intends to develop and market an .__ ________ __.reliant on 
robotics and artificial intelligence technologies. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria by 
providing evidence that she has participated as a judge of the work of others in her field and by 
authoring scholarly articles in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The 
record supports this determination, as the Petitioner has documented her service as a judge based on 
her peer review of manuscripts for scientific journals and conferences in her field. She has also 
published her scholarly work in a journal (IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters) and in international 
conferences in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she has made 
original scientific contributions of major significance in her field and therefore meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).2 After reviewing all the evidence submitted, we conclude that the record 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner received her Ph.D. from the University ofl I in August 2020. 
2 Although the Petitioner previously claimed to meet three additional evidentiary criteria, she does not contest the 
Director's determination that she did not satisfy the criteria related to lesser nationally and internationally recognized 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), display of her work a1i artistic exhibitions and showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
and performance in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation at 8 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This criterion calls for evidence of a petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that their contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion bas,..,.._"""""'.......,, ......... """'-'.........,"""""'"'-'-'-'U....,,.:.LL- ___ .......,.·ncorporated 
into an autonomous stem called , which was 
developed at the University of Robotics Lab. Specifically, the Petitioner 
explains that she contributed to tion and mani ulation com onents 
which allow the 
L--------------------...r----i,. _______ _J The Petitioner 
maintains that the significance of her contribution to th,__ _ _.project has been widely recognized in 
the field, as evidenced by her publication of two articles and two datasets related to the project, 
citations to and downloads of these publications and data, media attention received by the project, and 
letters from experts in her field. She asserts that this evidence, considered in its totality, is sufficient 
to establish the major significance of her scientific contribution. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider evidence of "massive downloads" of two 
datasets related to theO project that are available on th website. 
S ecificall , she states that her team at Universit of ublished two datasets: (1) "A 
which has been ~------------- ........ ------------------downloaded 13,644 times; and (2) ~---------------~which has been 
downloaded 37,730 times. The Petitioner explains that the datasets can be used by other researchers 
to understand ho~ lso that they can recreate those actions with 
robots. She states that the only "logical reason" for her datasets to have over 50,000 downloads is 
because her "peers in this field have widely recognized her original findings and the importance of her 
original findings, which can ... help them to do their own [research]." 
The Petitioner states that the two datasets have achieved a "massive" number of downloads but the 
record does not contain comparative information regarding downloads for other datasets in the same 
field. Rather, she asserts that 50,000 is a large number without placing that number in context. Without 
supporting evidence to provide such context, she has not supported her claim that the total number of 
downloads establishes the major significance of the data she collected through her research on the 
,___ _ _.I project. 
Further, the total number of downloads for a given dataset does not provide insight into how many 
individual researchers have downloaded the Petitioner's data. For exam le, the l I 
.__--.-----~--------,,-------,__ ___ __,.-,----' has been downloaded 
over 13,000 times since being published o ~------~ in 2019. However, this dataset includes 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We consider these issues to be waived and will not further discuss these criteria. See Matter 
of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision, that issue is waived). 
3 
nearly 2500 files and the total number of downloads represents the sum of downloads for each file; it 
does not indicate that 13,000 researchers have downloaded the complete dataset. The Petitioner 
provided download numbers for ten individual files within the dataset showing that they were each 
downloaded between 7 and 15 times. Given the total number of files (2493) and total number of 
downloads (13,644), the average number of downloads per file would fall between 5 and 6 downloads. 
The Petitioner's other dataset, published o~ I in 2018, includes 479 files that have 
been downloaded a total of 37,730 times, or an average of approximately 79 downloads per file. 
In addition, a download count does not tell us whether or how the Petitioner's datasets have been used 
in subsequent research studies. If such downloads rarely result in citations, then the download count 
does not appear to correlate direct! to the impact or influence of the Petitioner's research in the field. 
Onl one of the two datasets (the 2018 dataset titled .__ ______ ___. 
.__ ________ ___. is included on the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile. Although the 
Petitioner emphasizes that it has over 37,000 downloads, the record reflects that this dataset had been 
cited only three times, a number which appears to include self-citations by the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the number of downloads and suggests that it would be unusual 
for a researcher to cite to a dataset such as those she published o~ l She maintains 
that "[p ]eople who downloaded them are scientific researchers in this specific field and they 
downloaded them not casually for fun, but seriously with the purpose for their research[]." At the 
same time, she states that the data contained in the datasets "is not in ordinary English words which is 
not practically cited as the normal citation." Her statements imply that researchers have downloaded 
and relied on her data for their own research without citing it. However, the information provided 
from! I indicates that the website automatically generates a full citation for every 
uploaded dataset for use by researchers, to ensure that those who publish the datasets are credited for 
their work when others rely on it. The record does not adequately support the Petitioner's claims that 
the downloads of her dataset should be given greater evidentiary weight than citations to those datasets. 
The Petitioner also em 
research related to th hasizes that she used the datasets discussed above to publish and present her 
ro · ect. She rovided evidence that her paper 
was published in 
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters in 2019 and that she resented!~ --------~I 
~---~-------~---------------~ at the 2019 International 
Symposium on Robotics Research (ISRR). This evidence verifies that the Petitioner has shared her 
research associated with thel lsystem. Although funded and published work 
may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the reaction from the field upon the 
dissemination of her work confirms that her research rises to the level of a "contribution of major 
significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 3 Here, the Petitioner provided her Google 
Scholar profile indicating that the two articles referenced above had been cited 21 times and 5 times, 
respectively. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual) (stating that "[p]eer-reviewed 
presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index which cite the alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the alien's 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's 
published or presented work. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the number of 
citations received by her published work associated with th~ !project is commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance. In fact, referring to the citations received by her article in IEEE 
Robotics and Automation Letters, she states on appeal that the number of citations it received, if 
considered alone, "is not impressive." She asserts that these citations should be considered along with 
evidence that the corresponding dataset published on] I was downloaded over 13,000 
times, emphasizing that the combination of the citations and downloads is "very convincing" evidence 
of the significance of her research contribution. However, as discussed above, the Petitioner has not 
established that her datasets related to th~ project have been widely cited or that the downloads 
signify widespread notice or attention in her field commensurate with major significance. Although 
evidence related to the Petitioner's citations indicates that her research has received some attention 
from the field, she did not establish that the citations demonstrate that her work has been widely 
discussed or relied on by other researchers, that the work has been particularly influential or impactful, 
or that it is otherwise regarded as a contribution of major significance in her field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that several media outlets reported on the University of 
I Is first demonstration of the~-------~ robot when the IEEE Robotics and 
Automation article was published in 2019. The Petitioner provided copies of online articles from BBC, 
Reuters, Science Daily, GeekWire, Digital Trends, New Atlas, Fast Company, and Interesting 
En ineerin . An article about the ro·ect was also featured on the website of the NIH'sl I 
.__ ______________________ __, which provided project funding. The 
articles convey that ... ""'th""e::.er..:::e_,a::.er..:::e_,a=.tc===~ one million Americans with injuries or disabilities that 
revent them from and note that the team at Universit of has 
,__ _ ___,as a first step in developing an.__ __________ ~ robot. 
The articles describe the engineering challenges presented by~ project, describe how the 
research team approached those challenges, and explain how th~t works. While the articles 
comment on the potential of the technology, the evidence does not indicate that the algorithms 
developed by the Petitioner and incorporated into the I J or thel bbot itself: have 
already had a major impact in the robotics field or have resulted in a technology that is already being 
used by the population it intends to serve. 
For exam le the BBC article re orts that the ro · ect' s researchers 
The 
article published by Fast Company discusses several limitations of the robot and possible future 
improvements, noting that "the [University of I I team has no immediate plans for 
commercialization." The Geek Wire article refers tcC:J as "an earl -sta e ro · ect" and reports that 
Overall, the 
submitted media articles recognize the originality and potential of the research and two of them 
mention thatD is more advanced than an existing! I robot already on the market. 
However, they do not present! I as a development that has already been shown to have a 
demonstrable impact in the field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
5 
The Petitioner has also submitted several expert opinion letters that discuss her contributions to the I !project at University o~ f Although the authors comment on the originality of this 
research and the publication and presentation of this work, they do not sufficiently articulate how the 
Petitioner's research and findings havl already Impacted on influenced the field in a si nificant way. 
'----------~ who runs the Robotics Lab at Universit of and served 
as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor, acknowledges her contributions to the.__ _________ ~ 
s stem notin her critical role in the team's develo ment of "a software stack for a mobile 
'He '----------------------------------------' states that the project "has received much attention ... in the research community," but does not 
further elaborate on the influence or impact of the Petitioner's contributions. 
Other letters comment on the potential future applications of the Petitioner's work without detai
1lingl 
how it has already impacted further research in the field or been widely implemented in the field. 
'------.----.-~a professor of computer science who previously served as the Petitioner's 
advisor at L----,--....1...::u.u.Ju..u.JCI.LU""""'"---'J.>.i.L---'-'...,_,,_.......,.u.........._......_.i.lJJ........,,___..,.....,. ........... ......,. __ ....u.....,_._.,1.1.L...--'-'.....,_....LLl...>..LJw.>.L..-,practi cal 
applications i and will 
help "millions of Americans in need o .__ _____ ....,_ ________ __,services." I ~' a mechanical engineering professor at mentions the two datasets and two p~u_b_l_i-ca-t-io_n_s__, 
associated with the Petitioner's research, and states that her work one=) and her expertise inl I 
robotic systems has "unlimited potential applications in improving the lives of many disabled 
Americans, which certainly has substantial merit and national importance." I I an 
electrical and computer engineering professor at I I University, similarly discusses the 
Petitioner's published work related to thel I project and notes its "importance to thel I 
robotics field iven its numerous a lications which can be designed to improve the quality of life for 
millions of individuals." Finally,! I a professor 
a .__ _____ __,University, states that the Petitioner has made "invaluable breakthroughs" that will 
"help millions of Americans who require! I services." 
While several of the letters emphasize the "substantial merit and national importance" of the field of I !robotics, they do not explain with specificity how the Petitioner's individual contributions to 
this field rise to the level of major significance. The submitted letters emphasize the potential of the 
Petitioner's research, the impact it may have in the future, and the merits of developing artificial 
intelligence and robotics technology for the purpose of assisting persons with disabilities with daily 
tasks. They do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact her research has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 
The reference letters and other evidence in the record show that the Petitioner's work has added to the 
general pool of knowledge and has resulted in incremental advancements in the field, as would be 
expected of any original research. However, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify her 
4 We have addressed the expert letters that discuss the Petitioner's work on the0 project at University ofl 0 
because this research forms the basis of her claim that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, we 
have reviewed and considered all expert opinion letters provided in support of the petition. 
5 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
original contribution but to also demonstrate why it is considered to be of major significance in the 
field. Here, after reviewing the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, both individually and 
collectively, we conclude that she has not established that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, upon a review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments to date is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1820463 7 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a surgical ophthalmologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a surgical ophthalmologist. At the time of filing, she was emplord as the Associate 
Chief Physician for the Department of Ophthalmology at the I I Hospital,__ _ ___,l University 
in China. Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that she meets seven of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she meets three additional criteria relating to her receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, original 
contributions of major significance to her field, and her leading or critical role for organizations having 
a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not pursued her initial claim that she meets the criteria 
related to memberships in associations in the field that require outstanding achievements of their 
members (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)) or that she commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the field (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix)). Therefore, we 
deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria in this decision. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion regarding 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, as the record the demonstrates that the Petitioner 
performed peer review for a number of scholarly journals. The record also demonstrates the 
Petitioner's authorship of numerous scholarly articles in the medical field. However, as discussed 
below, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she, rather than her employer, is 
the recipient of prizes or awards that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the awards documented in the record 
are nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she received two nationally regarded awards for excellence in her field. She asserts 
that the evidence she submitted in support of the petition and in response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) included detailed descriptions of the awards and the processes for granting them, and 
was therefore sufficient to establish that all elements of the criterion were satisfied. 
The Petitioner presented evidenc~onstrating that she won the l !Medical Science & 
Technology Award" (2nd prize) inl__J2006, accompanied by evidence demonstrating that the award 
recognizes the city I ~s medical and health industry. The Director determined that because 
the award was limited to those within the city I I the award was not nationally or 
internationally recognized. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence, 
including a document titled "Implementing rules for incentive regulation ofl I Medical Science 
and Technology Award." In the document's "Scope of Declaration," it states that "[a]ll medical 
schools and all levels of health system, various medical, scientific research and prevention institutes 
in this city are eligible to apply for th~ I Medical Science & Technology Award." (Emphasis 
added). The Director concluded that this document forthe~rated that the scope of the award 
was limited to the institutions operating within the city ofL___J and therefore did not satisfy the 
plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that although eligibility for this award is limited to individuals or 
institutions inl l it does not mean that the award is not nationally recognized. The Petitioner 
notes that I fTs one of China's most prestigious cities, and that thel I Medical 
Association, who awards the prize, is a "nationally prestigious medical association." She farther notes 
that because only 15-20 prizes for 2nd place are awarded annually, and they are accompanied by a 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 Id. 
3 
cash award of RMB 10,000, it is more likely than not that her receipt of this award satisfies this 
criterion. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that this 
award is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence, as eligibility appears to be 
limited to individuals and companies operating in the city of~ While we acknowledge the 
Petitioner's assertions that the awarding entity and the city ol______..,_J are well respected in China, 
the award is not accompanied by evidence of the national or international recognition associated with 
it, or evidence that the Petitioner received national or international recognition as a recipient of this 
2nd place award. Therefore, although the Petitioner established that she was one of approximately 20 
recipients of the 2nd place I I Medical Science & Technology A ward" in 2006, the evidence 
submitted does not establish that this honor qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized 
award or prize for excellence in her field. 
The Petitioner also claimed receipt of a certificate issued by the Science and Technology Commission 
o~ I of Achievement for I I 
in( I 2005. The certificate states, 'The certificate is hereb_.l.....L>......,........._....,,,__conform that the science and 
technological achievements you have participated in are science and technological 
achievements upon review." It identifies the "Work Unit" as~----------~ ffiliated 
tol I Medical University, and under a section titled "Main Contribution" it identifies 
the Petitioner as "the 9th contributor." The Director found this certificate insufficient to satisfy this 
criterion, as the certificate did not indicate that the Petitioner was awarded a prize or award outside of 
the city o~ lor its municipality. The Director farther noted that the certificate was issued in 
conjunction with a national fonding initiative. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that this certificate, which she refers to as th~ I Medical 
Science & Technology Achievement! ~' "qualifies as a nationally recognized prize for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor," noting that the program issuing the certificate is a 
"major Chinese national initiative dedicate[ d] to promoting important national interests via 
cutting-edge scientific research achievements." The Petitioner rovides a basic overview of the0 I I referred to formally as the~----------------------- which 
appears to provide fonding to improve research in a variety of scientific fields. 
Here, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's receipt of this certificate 
constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize in his field of endeavor. 
Moreover, the minimal evidence submitted suggests that the Petitioner's receipt of this certificate may 
indicate her receipt of a research grant or research fonding from thel !principally designed 
to fond her future research, and not to honor or recognize her past achievements. Absent additional 
evidence regarding the nature of this certificate, we cannot determine whether her receipt of this 
certificate constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in her 
field of endeavor. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
4 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner claims that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field as evidenced by her published research, citation record, 
patents, and a letter of recommendation from an expert in the field. 
The Petitioner provides evidence demonstrating that she published articles in journals such as the 
International Journal of Molecular Sciences, Ophthalmology, and Tissue Engineering (Part A), and 
asserts that the journal rankings, as well as each journal's impact factor, are elements that should 
contribute to her satisfying this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner, however, has not established 
that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field 
considers the research and work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published 
in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the 
Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian, 580 
F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her published papers and articles had been cited 60 times at 
the time of filing. 4 This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance in 
the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record 
rather than identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that her three highest cited articles 
received 31, 9 and 9 citations, respectively. 5 Once again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to 
establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, 
citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
4 In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided an updated citation record demonstrating additional citations to her work 
subsequent to the filing of the petition. The additional citations to articles after the initial filing will not be considered. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time 
of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of her articles contained self-citations. 
5 
work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of her published 
papers or articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to her articles. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertions, 
both before the Director and again on appeal, that her citation statistics rank her as one of the top 1,140 
scientists and physicians publishing in Ophthalmology, and that she ranks in the top 0.54% of cited 
physicians given the fact that there are approximately 210,730 ophthalmologists worldwide. The issue 
here, however, is how, or the extent to which, the Petitioner's work impacted the work of those 
researchers that cited her publications. Although her citations and perceived ranking are indicative 
that her research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that her 
citation numbers to her individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted examples of articles which cited to her 
work. 7 A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research 
in the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 8 For example, the Petitioner provided 
a co of an article titled 
' in which the authors ~------------------------------~ cited one of her articles. 9 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written 
work from the other cited papers. 10 The article does not indicate that the Petitioner's article is 
authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field, nor does it reflect that the 
authors found the Petitioner's work of such value that they discuss her work extensively. Instead, the 
article briefly cites to her work when discussing an examrle of ho~ I have been used 
as substitutes for I _ during the development of bioengineered I I The Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through citations rise to a 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that one 
above-referenced article isl I, Co-Director ofth't,..__...,-------,_ ____ _J 
Center of Excellence. The Petitioner submits a professional profile forL____,.--- .......... ""-'-+ 
accomplishments in the field, and asserts that the fact that her work was cited b.1~----~ indicates 
that that her work "has been recognized as important and noteworthy by at least one of the world's 
leading researchers in the field." Again, although the above article co-authored byl I did 
cite to one of the Petitioner's articles, it does not indicate that the Petitioner's work is authoritative or 
otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. Researchers throughout a given field may 
cite other published works without the cited work being notably influential or serving as a foundational 
basis for their own work. The fact that the Petitioner performed moderately valuable research and 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 Although she notes that her work has been cited by researchers around the world, the Petitioner did not establish how 
being cited by international researchers shows that her research is considered to be majorly significant. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 The paper's citation index lists a total of 45 citations to various sources. 
6 
received a reference to her work does not inherently demonstrate a contribution of major significance 
to the field, as this activity is inherent to the Petitioner's occupation. 
The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's patents, but determined that there was no evidence 
submitted to determine that they have garnered widespread commentary or use. On appeal, the 
Petitioner emphasizes that the patents, and associated research, have been cited 31 times by scholars 
from all over the world, and further notes that her patented 1 I ad ! tube used during 
operations to flushl la surgical region an~ ~ as required, has also been cited 
by a subsequent patented technology in the field. She claims that these citations to her patents and 
associated research demonstrate that her contributions have been substantially relied on by subsequent 
research in the field, and thus demonstrate that they constitute original contributions of major 
significance in the field as contemplated by this criterion. 
In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner argues that her 
groundbreaking patented research was selected for publication by a premier journal and has been 
widely cited, she did not demonstrate how the patents already qualify as contributions of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The record, for example, does not 
reflect that her patents resulted in widespread usage or influenced the field of ophthalmology in a 
majorly, significant manner. Here, the significant nature of her patents has yet to be determined. 
Finally, the Petitioner relies on a testimonial froml !s, Professor of 
Clinical Ophthalmology at the University ofl l which she 
claims attests to her majorly significant contributions. In general, the letter recounts the Petitioner's 
research and findings, indicates their publications in journals, and points to the citations of her work 
by others. Although it reflects the novelty of her work, it does not sufficiently articulate how her 
research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their im act on the field rises 
to the level of major significance required by this criterion. For instance stated that the 
Petitioner's work in identifying! I targets fo .._ ___________ _,injury resulted 
m a pa er that was cited nine times by "several foreign experts inclusive of those from the USA." 
While noted that this research "has furthered the study and treatment in clinical 
especially in the U.S.A.," he did not offer any examples of further ---..,......,-.,....,...-----,--.,.,....... research in this area or describe how the Petitioner's work in this area has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarl whil claimed that the Petitioner "is the expert of the diagnosis and 
treatment o L---------r-------,. ___ _J surgery, especially specializing in the 
postoperative reconstruction o ...._ _____ __,tumors," he did not supplement his letter with 
specific examples corroborating this statement or otherwise showing how the Petitioner impacted the 
field in a significant way. 
Furthermore, the letter speculates generally on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
proposes that she will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. I I opined that 
if the Petitioner one day "has the opportunity to enter the USA, she definitely will make good use of 
her experience and proficiency to enhance the medical standard whether in the research institutes or 
in the medical schools." He did not elaborate or explain how her research to date has been applied in 
the field, and did not further discuss whether the Petitioner's research has affected previous 
procedures, let alone actual implementation in the field. While the letter shows promise in the 
7 
Petitioner's work, it does not establish how her work already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of her work 
has yet to be determined or measured. 
Here, the testimonial letter from I I does not contain specific, detailed information 
explaining the unusual influence or high impact the Petitioner's research or work has had on the overall 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was (1) leading or 
critical; (2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the 
overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be 
apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The 
Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization 
or establishment as a whole. For the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that her role as the Associate Chief Physician for the Department of 
Ophthalmology at the I I Hos pi tall I University in China was leading or critical for 
that organization. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner initially submitted an employment 
verification from the hospital affirming her position and stating that she had been employed by the 
hospital since July 2007, along with a hospital organizational chart. She also supplemented the record 
with evidence of her participation in volunteer clinics and trainings as well as various presentations. 
Additionally, she submitted evidence in support of the claimed distinguished reputation of the hospital. 
The Director found the initial evidence insufficient, and issued an RFE requesting additional evidence 
in the form of letters from the Petitioner's current or former employers or trainers with personal 
knowledge of the significance of her leading or critical role, as well as evidence to assist in determining 
whether the organizations or establishments for which the Petitioner claimed to have performed a 
leading or critical role have distinguished reputations. In response, the Petitioner submitted a 
"Certificate" from the hospital dated August 5, 2020, which provided a general overview of her 
position. The Petitioner also submitted an organizational chart for the hospital and two documents 
11 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
12 Id; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
8 
titled "Certificate from Joint Conference Office for Standardized Residency Training ofl~--~ 
and "Notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the Issuance of the 
Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors inl I 
The Director found the Petitioner's evidence insufficient to satisfy this criterion. In denying the 
petition, the Director declined to acknowledge the certificate issued by the hospital, as it post-dated 
the filing of the petition. The Director determined that t~e certificate issued by the Joint Conference 
Office for Standardized Residency Training of._ ____ _.]which indicated that the Petj~cmy served as 
an examiner for the completion of the standardized training of resident doctors inl~----- ~_from April 
2014 to April 2017, and the notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the 
Issuance of the Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors irj O I lacked 
sufficient detail to show that her role was leading or critical. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determinations regarding the deficiencies in 
the certificate issued by the Joint Conference Office for Standardized Residency Training ofl I 
or the notice of the Municipal Health and Family Planning Commission on the Issuance of the 
Measures for the Standardized Training of Resident Doctors inl I Rather, she challenges the 
Director's failure to consider the certificate issued by th~ I Hospital I I university, 
arguing that it should have been considered as the content of the document discusses the Petitioner's 
employment history and role at the hospital. We agree that the document warrants consideration under 
this criterion; however, as discussed below, it is insufficient to demonstrate that she performed in a 
leading or critical role for the hospital. 13 
Preliminarily, we note that both the certificate and the organizational chart from the hospital are not 
signed by an individual claiming personal knowledge of her role; rather, both documents are merely 
stamped with the hospital seal. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(g)(l) (providing that evidence of experience shall 
consist of letters from the employer). As a result, we are unable to determine from whom the 
information was provided, and to what extent the writer was familiar with the Petitioner's role and 
associated duties at the hospital. There is no indication that the information contained in these 
documents reflects firsthand knowledge of an employer or trainer familiar with the Petitioner's role at 
her current employer. 
Moreover, this certificate did not provide sufficient detail regarding the Petitioner's role at thel I 
I IHospita~ I University. It states simply that she hegan her emnlo]ment with the hospital 
in 2007, served as a visiting scholar at the University ofi~ ______ __. in from 2014 -2015, 
and is currently the "Deputy Chief Physician of the Department of Ophthalmology and Ocular 
Oncology." The certificate did not indicate where the Petitioner's role fit within the overall hierarchy 
of thd I Hospital o~ I University, so as to demonstrate that it was a "leading" position 
within the organization. Moreover, the organizational chart submitted by the Petitioner does little to 
clarify her position within the organization's hierarchy, as it lists the Petitioner's position several tiers 
below the hospital's President and general departments. Specifically, her position is placed under the 
13 We exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 l&N Dec. 884 
(AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial 
decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. 
9 
'---,,----------------'Department, which appears to be a sub-department of the 
Department of Oncology. 
Furthermore, while the certificate indicates that the Petitioner is involved in the coordination of clinical 
and administrative affairs for 17 5 ophthalmologists and is in charge of the medical education and 
research of the Department of Orbital and Ocular Oncology, she has not provided evidence sufficient 
to show that these duties and responsibilities were critical for the I I Hospital I I 
University as a whole. The submitted documentation, therefore, does not establish that the Petitioner's 
role was "leading" based on her title, placement in the organization, or her duties, nor does the 
Petitioner provide information sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's duties and responsibilities 
were of significant importance to the organization, to the extent that her role was deemed critical. 
Additionally, we note that the certificate identifies her position as the "Deputy Chief Physician of the 
Department of Ophthalmology and Ocular Oncology," in contrast to the organizational chart (and the 
Petitioner's own assertions) which indicate that she is currently the "Associate Chief Physician of the 
Department of Clinical Treatment Technology." The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the 
record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Moreover, both the certificate and the organizational chart indicate that she currently holds the 
respective positions. Because this criterion requires evidence that she "has performed" in a leading or 
critical role in the past, we cannot determine whether she has satisfied the plain language of this 
criterion absent evidence confirming the date of her appointment to the claimed position and/or the 
length of time she has spent in this role. This evidentiary deficiency, coupled with the discrepancy 
with her job titles, farther precludes a determination that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 14 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
14 We acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of evidence in support of the assertion that thd I HospitalO 
~-~!University is a organization with a distinguished reputation, including an excerpt of a document titled "Best Eye 
Hospital: Top 100 Most Influential Ophthalmology Hospitals in 2016 (with list)" from the website www.askCI.com, a ~ut froml l's Department of Ophthalmology website, a U.S. News & World Report article on 
l___J University, and an excerpt from an article titled "Honor rolls of best hospitals in China released" published in the 
Journal of Hospital Management and Health Policy in! 12017. As the Petitioner has not established that she 
performed in a leading or critical role, further analysis of the reputation of the hospital serves no meaningful purpose. 
10 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18603110 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 28, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a medical consultant , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements . A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical consultant who previously served as the Director of the Department of 
Diabetes I I at the I I University'----~-~~----' Hospital in China. 
Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria relating to her original contributions of 
major significance to her field, and her leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion regarding 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, as the record the demonstrates that the Petitioner 
performed peer review for a number of scholarly journals. The record also demonstrates the 
Petitioner's authorship of numerous scholarly articles in the medical field. However, as discussed 
below, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner claims that she has made original 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 
contributions of major significance in the field of diabetes and gout/hyperuricemia as evidenced by 
her published research, her participation in projects and academic conferences, and endorsements from 
other experts in the field. On appeal, she asserts that the Director failed to properly address the 
evidence submitted in support of her eligibility under this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims that while her research and clinical contributions have "encompassed a wide 
spectrum of areas within [the fields of] Endocrinology and Metabolism," her most important original 
contribution is her scientific findings on the relationship between! land diabetes. She submitted 
evidence demonstrating that she published articles on this topic as the first author in journals such as 
the Chinese Journal of Practical Internal Medicine, the Chinese Journal of Diabetes, and the 
International Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism, and served as corresponding author in 
numerous other published articles. She asserts that the journal rankings, as well as each journal's impact 
factor, are elements that should contribute to her satisfying this criterion's requirements. The 
Petitioner, however, has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular journals 
inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an original contribution 
of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the 
publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on 
the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution 
of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly 
ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that she has published more than 80 "highly valued academic 
articles," and that her published articles have been cited nearly 600 times. 2 As it relates to the 
cumulative citations of her work, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
identify her original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance 
in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication 
record rather than identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence pertaining to her publication and citation record from Google 
Scholar, PubMed, and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) China Integrated 
Knowledge Resources System, which provides comparable information for Chinese language 
publications that cite to her work. 3 But this evidence does not show that the impact of her work on 
the overall field of diabetes! I or related fields rises to the level of an original contribution of 
2 In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submits a letter frornl O I who "verifies" her cumulative citation 
numbers. Absent conoborating evidence such as citation indexes or statistics, this unsupp01ted testimonial letter is 
insufficient to establish this claimed fact. 
3 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work, and claims 
that her overall citation rate is high, do not demonstrate that any specific work of hers is so widely cited and relied upon 
that it is considered to have made a major impact in her field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others 
in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination. 
3 
major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that her articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [her] contributions to the field of endeavor."4 
The Petitioner has demonstrated that her most cited article is ' 
.__ ___ cublished in Diabetes Care in 2008. The evidence from Google Scholar reflects that this 
article, with 161 citations, has more than four times as many citations as her next most cited article, as 
the documentation from CNKI indicates that two articles published in the Chinese Journal of Diabetes 
and the Chinese Journal of Endocrinology received 40 and 31 citations, respectively. 5 While the 
Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters that briefly address 
her research in this area, that evidence, as will be discussed in more detail below, is not sufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner's research is regarded as an original contribution of major significance that 
has remarkably impacted or influenced her field. 
The Petitioner also provided a CNKI list of published articles byl I who she claims is 
a scholar in the diabetes fields and one of her peers. According to the information presented,□ 
I Is highest cited article received a total of 87 citations. Noting that her highest cited article 
garnered a total of 161 citations, the Petitioner concluded that these statistics demonstrate that her 
citation numbers "are relatively high among prominent scholars" in the field, which therefore 
evidences the significance of her achievements. The Director declined to afford evidentiary wei ht to 
this evidence, which the Petitioner challenges on appeal. Specifically, she points out that 
in addition to being the current Director of the I !university~-------~ 
Hospital, is also a reviewer of the China National Natural Science Foundation, a standing committee 
member of the Chinese Diabetes Association, and a visiting scholar at thd I Diabetes Center at I !University. Based on these professional accomplishments, the Petitioner asserts that her 
citation statistic could be considered "a baseline, or at least an indicator of the general view of a 
contribution of major significance." 
The comparative ranking of her top cited article to another individual she deems a peer in her field, 
however, does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions in the field. Again, the 
issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance 
in the field rather than where her highest cited article ranks against one other individual's article in the 
field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to 
other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well 
as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Further, highly-cited publications alone are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as the number 
of citations for a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the impact or 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of her articles contained self-citations. 
4 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that her research received funding from th~ I Science 
and Technology Commission, which oversees thel !Natural Science Foundation. The Director 
found this evidence insufficient to demonstrate original contributions of major significance, noting 
that original academic research generally must receive funding. The Director determined that receipt 
of a municipal grant did not equate a project to an original contribution of major significance, as grants 
serve to fund research that aligns with the grantees' goals as opposed to award the Petitioner's 
contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the criteria for issuing the grant, which it claims are "highly strict 
and application-oriented," demonstrate that the grant was based on progress and data that she has 
already achieved, and thus recognized her past excellence in her field of endeavor. We have reviewed 
the referenced criteria, and find that it does not support the Petitioner's assertion. Specifically, Article 
2 of the criteria submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) states as follows: 
The Natural Science Foundation focuses on funding applied research in natural science, 
guiding the city's scientific and technological personnel to conduct forward-looking 
scientific issues and cutting edge technology research based on the needs ofl I 
economic and social development. It also provides funding for training of high-level 
innovative individuals, and provide[ s] scientific and technological support for the [] 
strategic emerging industries in the city. 
Emphasis added. 
Contrary to the Petitioner's appellate assertion, it appears that grants issued by this foundation promote 
"forward-looking scientific issues," and we therefore agree with the Director's determination. Once 
again, the issue is whether her research qualifies as an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. Receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance 
in-and-of-itself; rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or other similar funding 
reflects the major significance of her past work, or that her research conducted with the funding 
resulted in contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that she has "gathered widespread academic recognition evidenced by 
countless invitations to the most authoritative global academic conferences." The Director determined 
that the submitted evidence was insufficient to demonstrate her eligibility under this criterion. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination regarding this issue. 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's conclusions. Many professional fields regularly hold 
conferences and symposia to present new work, to discuss new findings, and to network with other 
professionals. Professional associations, businesses, educational institutions, and government 
agencies promote and sponsor these conferences. Participation in such events, however, does not 
necessarily result in an original contribution of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated the impact of her findings after dissemination to the field at any of the claimed 
conferences. 
5 
The Petitioner highlights her role in founding the Department of Diabetes! I atl I I I University I I Hospital, as well as her role in founding thel I I I Professional Committee. The Director found that neither of these 
accomplishments constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the foundation of a clinic did not qualify, and the foundation of the 
committee, while admirable, did not constitute an original contribution of major significance as the 
impact of the committee on the field of diabetd I in general could not be determined . 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her foundation of the diabetes I I department in fact 
satisfied this criterion, noting that at the time of its creation, there were no specialized medical 
departments or hospitals to connect diabetes! I She asserts that her foundation of this 
department was far-sighted, filled a vacancy for diagnosis and treatment of these combined diseases 
and ultimately promoted the development of China in this field. In support of her assertion that these 
accomplishments are original contributions of major significance, she relies on testimonial letters from 
others in the industry. 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in 
journals, and point to the citations of her work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of her 
work, they do not sufficiently articulate how her research and findings have been considered of such 
importance and how their im act on the field rises to the level of major significance required by this 
criterion. 6 For instance, discusses the Petitioner's founding of the Department of 
Diabetes! land the ______________ -Professional Committee, and notes 
that both of these accomplishments represent the "first and only" in China. While he states that the 
founding of the department has provided "an excellent platform for the research of diabetes D I Jin the whole country," and that the committee has "dramatically expanded the research 
held and s1gmhcantly promoted interdisciplinary research," he did not further elaborate or discuss the 
research advancements related to the creation of the department and the committee, nor did he explain 
how their creation has impacted and influenced the overall field. 
Similarly! !claims that the Petitioner has made original contributions to the metabolism 
.-fi.cl.d....tqough her research on the degree of damagel I. 
L_Jfurther claims that the Petitioner has "completed several breakthrough and milestone projects 
in the metabolism/diabetes field," and concludes that her findings "have improved our understanding I I which is definitely a significant breakthrough in the treatment of diabetes." In support of 
this assertion,! briefly references the Petitioner's article ._ _____________ __. 
._ __________________ ___. and concludes that her research is not "not only 
a contribution to the research field but also to clinical use." While the letter praises the Petitioner's 
research,! I did not indicate that the Petitioner's research onl I has resulted in proven new 
treatments or has otherwise had a significant impact on the field of diabetes research. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not afford ro er evidentia weight to a 
testimonial letter froml land correspondence fro~ ... ...,----,----.=====1..:s:.::u:.::b~m:::i:.:.:tt:.:e.::d..:in.::.., 
response to the RFE. We have reviewed the documentation fro .. 'L ___ ...Jan.__ ______ _ 
but do not find their contents persuasive . 
6 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
.__ __ __.I Professor of Biochemistry at the University ______________ , states that 
~dgment, the Petitioner has "excelled and achieved significant level of recognition in the field 
L___JDiabetes research, particularly inl I studies," and states that her 
research result, which he deems "a really rare and valuable one considering the size and time-span of 
her study-has provided me a comprehensive database in the treatment of type 2 diabetes." 
Similar tol Is statements,! ldoes not indicate that the Petitioner's research has broadly 
impacted the field of diabetes research or otherwise resulted in proven new treatments . Instead, his letter 
attests to the still-unrealized potential of the Petitioner's research in the use ofl I for diabetes 
treatment. For example! !indicates that while he is fascinated by the Petitioner's research, the 
implementation of such research, currently performed on animals, will only be efficient and accurate for 
human use when "at least two different does can be used to identify the most effective dose." Projections 
of the future impact resulting from the Petitioner's work do not establish that she has already made such 
a contribution . 
The Petitioner also submitted records of her correspondence wittt I who indicates that 
her department has "been able to carry out some research, which has not been published yet," and 
indicates that a future collaboration "sounds promising." This correspondence, however, does not 
identify the manner in which, if at all, the Petitioner's research or work influencP-dl l's 
studies, and appears to simply represent the Petitioner's interest her work and the possibility for a future 
collaboration. This correspondence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance as required by this criterion. 
Finall , the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred by not considering a letter submitted by 
1 _____ __.=e=mber of the American Academy of Kinesiology at the University I I 
r------,_ ___ ...... which proposes a future academic collaboration. A review of this letter indicates that 
....._ __ _ praises the achievements of the Petitioner and expresses a strong intent to collaborate with her 
on lifestyle intervention methods pertaining to diabetes! I While a testament to the Petitioner's 
accomplishments, proposing future collaborative studies in the field does not satisfy this criterion. 
Although! !expresses optimism that they can create a brand-new innovative treatment, projections 
of the future impact resulting from the Petitioner's work do not establish that she has already made such 
a contribution. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of her research through 
recommendation letters praising her for her contributions, the authors do not provide specific examples 
of contributions that are indicative of major significance. The letters do not contain specific, detailed 
infonnation explaining the unusual influence or high impact her research or work has had on the 
overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix . 
8 Id. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although the letters reflect the novelty of her 
work, they do not show how her research and findings have been considered of such importance and 
how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was (1) leading or 
critical; (2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation . For the reasons outlined below, we find that the 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that she has served in a critical role for the UniversityD I I Hospital as the Director of the Diabetes.__ __ _. Department. 9 In support of this 
assertion, she points to documents from I ! Director of the hospital's Personnel Department, 
and verification letters frortj I 
In order to demonstrate that a petitioner served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the petitioner's 
performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical.10 
In an affidavit submitted on appeal, I I addressed a date discrepancr m the Petitioner's 
employment, and clarified that she served in the role of Director of the Diabetes.__ __ ....,bepartment 
for thel I Universirrl I Hospital from 2002 to 2016. In a letter 
submitted in response to the RFE .__ _ ___.btated that the Petitioner had been a "critical asset" to the 
hospital and had undertaken critical responsibilities in her role as Director, including participation in 
outpatient intractable case consultation, supervision of graduate candidates, hosting meetings and 
seminars, undertaking emergency tasks, and serving in an expert role for the hospital's Clinical 
Supervision Committee and the People's Mediation Committee o~ !Medical Disputes. He 
further noted that she was the founder of the Department, and referenced her appointment to numerous 
committees and associations including the American Diabetes Association . 
Whild I outlined her role and associated duties as Director of the Diabetd I Department 
for the hospital, he did not provide detailed examples showing how her performance in this role 
resulted in improving the Department's influence in the medical field. While he indicates that the 
Department was evaluated by a professional committee and approved as a sub-center of the 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director incorrectly assessed whether the Petitioner performed in a leading role 
despite her specific assertion that the role was critical. 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix . 
8 
.__ ______ ___.I Management Center of Asia Pacific Consortium in 2018, and that such status 
allows the hospital to participate in various clinical studies in Asia, he does not discuss the nature or 
extent of the Petitioner's role, if any, in advancing the Department's achievement of such status.~ 
0did not provide specific examples reflecting the importance of the Petitioner's work to the outcomes 
of the hospital itself. Absent detailed information addressing how the Petitioner's role for thel I 
.__-,--__ 1urversittl !Hospital was of significant importance to the outcome of 
that entity, letter is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a critical role for 
the hospital. 
The Petitioner also relies on a letter from I I the hospital's Director of Medical 
Administration . states that the Petitioner was instrumental in facilitating the hospital's 
achievement of national' ...._ _____________ classification." Specifically , he states 
that the Petitioner was "the ONLY director-level clinical expert who is confident enough to 
recommend its department to be evaluated by the national classification committee," and claims that 
her department played a vital role in garnering the highest level ranking for the hospital. He further 
states that the hospital's partnership with I I and I I would not have come to fruition 
without the Petitioner. 
---~!however, does not describe with sufficient detail how the Petitioner played a critical role in 
the successes enjoyed by the hospital. He does not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's 
actions contributed to the acquisition of the referenced research partnerships or the hospital's ratip..2.,-, 
Moreover, while he states that the Petitioner has been invited "at least twice b~ I and LJ 
.___ _ _,Ito steer multiple cross-strait academic exchange activities with! t and that she has 
presided over several academic lectures and given keynote speeches, these accolades do not 
demonstrate that her position amounts to a critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that 
benefits their employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not established that her work for the 
hospital was critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or 
projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from I , I former Director of the I ~ 
University I I Hospital. I !reiterates the Petitioner's role in founding the 
Department of Diabetes! I and claims that she "helped establish a scientific and medical 
management system" which contributed to the hospital's receipt of its highest level I I rating. 
He also discusses her research projects and publications during the course of her employment with the 
hospital which garnered her recognition from the field, noting thatl J an~ 
partnered with the hospital based on her reputation. I ts letter, similar to those froml____Ja'ilt I l does not offer specific examples showing how the Petitioner's work for the hospital directly 
resulted in the partnerships withl landl I or directly contributed to the hospital's 
receipt ofl I status. 
The submitted letters lack detailed examples showing how the Petitioner contributed to thd I 
.__ __ _,IUniversit~ I Hospital in a manner that was critical to the hospital's 
activities . Despite providing accolades of the Petitioner's accomplishments, the letters do not offer 
specific examples of how her research, published work, and role as Director of the Diabetes I I 
Department contributed to the activities of the hospital. Letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as 
9 
long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the 
petitioner 's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 11 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director erroneously focused on the 
reputation of the Department of Diabetes I I rather than the hospital in general, in determining 
whether the hospital was an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. The 
Director's decision states as follows: "You did not qrovide objective documentation to show that the 
Department ofDiabete~ I a~._ _____ _,JUniversityl I Hospital is an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. has a distinguished reputation." The 
Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by not considering evidence such as the hospital's ranking in 
China. Upon review, however, we agree with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the record is not 
supported by objective, independent documentation establishing that the hospital holds a distinguished 
reputation . 12 Further, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements . 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 15. As the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a critical 
role for the hospital, however, further analysis of the hospital's reputation serves no meaningful 
purpose 
The Petitioner also claims on appeal that her role as a committee member for the I I 
1=====:;---_,,.,I was critical to that organization. According to a letter froml Is president, 
.__ ____ _.!the Petitioner was invited to be one of 17 committee members upon the organization's 
inception in 2017. The letter states that she engaged in on line lectures, accumulated data, and 
participated in WeChat discussion groups. The Director determined that this letter was of little 
significance, noting that it did not demonstrate how her role differentiated her from other committee 
members, and further determined that the record lacked evidence demonstrating thatl I was an 
establishment or organization that enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's findings, noting that in addition to not affording 
the letter sufficient evidentiary weight, the Director improperly evaluated the Petitioner's role with I I as a leading role, rather than a critical role. The Petitioner asserts that the letter from the 
chairman indicates that she performed in a critical role that distinguished her performance from the 
other 16 committee members, noting that she had been in charge of improving the quality oflong-term 
training programs for implementation in hospitals. 
As noted by the Director, however, the letter from the chairman is not in compliance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (g)(l) which provides, in relevant part, that "[e]vidence relating to 
qualifying experience or training shall be in the form of letter(s) from current or former employer(s) 
or trainer(s) and shall include the name, address, and title of the writer .... " Moreover , the author of 
this correspondence does not indicate, nor does the record demonstrate, that he currently or has in the 
past employed the Petitioner. In addition, the letter is devoid of specific examples demonstrating how 
the Petitioner's committee membership was critical to the organization itself. For these reasons, we 
concur with the Director's determination that this letter is not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix 
12 We exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion . See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 
(AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial 
decision. Furthermor e, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. 
Petitioner performed in a critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that her role as Chairwoman for the.__ ____________ ___. 
Committee o~ !Association of Medicine and Health was leading or critical to that organization. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the committee and whether it qualifies as an organization or 
establishment as contemplated by the regulations. However, we note preliminarily that the Petitioner 
has not shown that her role as committee cha~ constitutes a leading or critical role for thee=] 
~----------~ Committee ofL__J Association of Medicine and Health as a whole. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of a certificate demonstrating that she held the title of 
chairwoman. However, she has not provided specific information or details in the form ofletters from 
employers relating to her role as the chairwoman of the committee. The Petitioner's title alone, without 
specific information relating to what she did or her impact on the committee in that role, is insufficient 
to demonstrate that she hr perfo,ed either a leading or critical role forl I I Committee of Association of Medicine and Health as a whole. 
In summary, none of the evidence provided demonstrates that the petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The letters 
considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18448027 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 1, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and two subsequent two motions to reconsider. The matter is 
now before us on a third motion to reconsider. In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, 
we will dismiss the latest motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
II. CHRONOLOGY 
Ordinarily , a petitioner must file a motion to reconsider no later than 33 days after the date of the 
decision for which that petitioner seeks reconsideration. 1 But because of delays arising from the 
COVID-19 emergency , U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) temporarily expanded the 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) and 103.S(b). 
filing window, effective March 30, 2020. 2 USCIS has extended this flexibility several times, including 
on September 11, 2020, when it extended the flexibility period to January 1, 2021. 3 The September 
2020 news release reads, in part: 
In response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services is extending the flexibilities it announced on March 30, 2020, to assist applicants, 
petitioners, and requestors who are responding to certain: 
• Requests for Evidence; 
• Continuations to Request Evidence (N-14 ); 
• Notices oflntent to Deny; 
• Notices oflntent to Revoke; 
• Notices of Intent to Rescind and Notices of Intent to Terminate regional 
investment centers; 
• Motions to Reopen an N-400 Pursuant to 8 CFR 335.5, Receipt of Derogatory 
Information After Grant; 
• Filing date requirements for Form N-336, Request for a Hearing on a Decision in 
Naturalization Proceedings (Under Section 336 of the INA); or 
• Filing date requirements for Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. 
USCIS will consider a response to the above requests and notices received within 60 
calendar days after the response due date set in the request or notice before taking any 
action. Additionally, we will consider a Form N-336 or Form I-290B received up to 60 
calendar days from the date of the decision before we take any action. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's first motion on the merits on September 24, 2020. The Petitioner filed 
her second motion 89 days later, on December 22, 2020. At that time, the Petitioner quoted the 
September 2020 news release, stating it permitted her to file the motion "within 60 calendar days after 
the response due date." 
We dismissed the motion as untimely on April 21, 2021. The Petitioner filed a timely third motion on 
May 6, 2021, which we will consider here. 
III. ANALYSIS 
On motion, the Petitioner states that she acted in good faith when she filed her December 2020 motion, 
because the September 2020 USCIS guidance contains "ambiguous and seemingly contradictory 
language." Specifically, in filing the December 2020 motion, the Petitioner relied on this passage: 
"USCIS will consider a response to the above requests and notices received within 60 calendar days after 
the response due date set in the request or notice before taking any action." 
2 "USCTS Expands Flexibility for Responding to USCTS Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-expands­
flexibility-for-responding-to-uscis-requests (last visited August 31, 2021 ). 
3 "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-extends­
flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests-l (last visited Aug. 31, 2021 ). 
2 
The Petitioner states that, given the above wording, "[i]t would seem that in addition to allowing up to 60 
days from the date of the decision for the submission of Form I-290B, this guidance also provides for 60 
days of flexibility from after the response due date set in the request or notice." A motion to reconsider, 
however, is not a "response" to a "request or notice." However one might interpret the sentence about 
the "response due date" in isolation, or on first reading, the direct statement that USCIS "will consider a 
... Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision" supersedes any ambiguous 
reading of the sentence that precedes it. 
A motion to reconsider must show that the disputed decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw 
or USCIS policy. The Petitioner's misreading ofUSCIS guidance does not show that we based our April 
2021 decision on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy, and therefore the Petitioner's error is 
not good cause for reconsideration. 
The Petitioner also contends that, by accepting the filing fee and issuing a receipt for the December 2020 
filing, "the Administrative Appeals Office actionably determined that [the Petitioner's motion] met the 
prima facie regulatory threshold requirements for a motion to reconsider, including that the matter was 
timely filed." The Petitioner further contends that we failed "to timely notify her of the rejection of the 
motion." This argument proceeds on an incorrect premise. We did not "reject" the December 2020 filing. 
We accepted the filing, and then dismissed the motion because it was untimely. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4) states: "A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed." Because 
timely filing is an applicable requirement (see 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i)), the regulations required us to 
dismiss the motion. And because our April 2021 decision was a dismissal rather than a rejection, we 
advised the Petitioner of her right to file a motion on that decision. The Petitioner has exercised that right, 
and we have accepted the filing, hence the present decision. Therefore, the Petitioner has not been 
deprived of due process in this proceeding. An error by the Petitioner ( or her attorney of record) 
concerning the filing deadline does not create a due process right to accommodation as though the error 
had not occurred, or as though the erroneous reading ofUSCIS policy had been correct. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 In Re: 16763390 
Date: September 1, 2021 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary 
Ability) U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
5900 Capital Gateway Drive 
Mail Stop 2090 
Camp Springs, MD 20588-0009 
U.S. Citizenship 
and !mmigration 
The Petitioner, a multi-media and 3-D animator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. The Director 
of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not provide evidence of his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, evidence that he meets at least three of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification under 8 CF.R. § 204.5(h){3). The Petitioner filed an appeal, which 
was dismissed by the Administrative Appeals Office {AAO). The Petitioner filed a motion to reopen and reconsider 
the dismissal of his appeal, which was dismissed for not meeting the requirements of a motion. 
The matter is now before us again on a second motion to reopen and reconsider. Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 {AAO 2012). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration , be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and establish 
that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a){3). 
On motion, the Petitioner indicated in Part 2 of the 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that he was filing an appeal 
and would submit his brief/additional evidence to the AAO within 30 days. In Part 7 of the Form 1-290B, the 
Petitioner stated that he was "filing a motion to reopen and reconsider .... I am filing my brief with addit'I [sic] 
evidence in 30 days from this appeal." On June 1, 2020, the AAO received a brief related to the motion to reopen and 
reconsider . On August 20, 2020, we sent the Petitioner correspondence to confirm whether he intended to file an 
appeal, a motion to reopen, a motion to reconsider, or a motion to reopen and reconsider. We received the Petitioner's 
response on September 22, 2020. He indicated his intent was to file a motion to reopen and reconsider. 
However, the regulations regarding the submission of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider do not provide an 
allowance for additional time to submit a statement, brief or additional evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5{a){l){iii), see 
also Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion, Form 1-290B at 6 (rev. 5/17/2018). The second motion does not 
provide evidence that the brief was submitted by the Petitioner together with the Form 1-290B of the first motion. 
AA0I290BAAON0000019078638 2013 www.usc1s.gov 
As the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
AA0I290BAAON0000019078638 3013 www.usc1s.gov U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18315044 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who works in marketing and communications, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish 
eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, 
we will summarily dismiss the appeal. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which bas been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award), or through evidence that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy seven of the ten initial regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only of these criteria, pertaining to high salary or 
other remuneration. 
The Petitioner filed the appeal on February 5, 2021. On Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
the Petitioner indicates that she "will submit [a] brief and/or additional evidence to the AAO within 
30 calendar days." To date, seven months later, the record contains no supplemental brief or evidence. 
Likewise, the record contains no communication from the Petitioner showing good cause to extend 
the time to submit such a brief as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(vii). Therefore, we consider the 
record to be complete, and the appeal form to constitute the entire appeal. 
An officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned 
fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
identified specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. 
In the denial notice, the Director devoted four pages to explaining the conclusion that the Petitioner 
had not met six of the seven claimed criteria, taking into account both the Petitioner's initial 
submission and her response to a request for evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner summarizes each of the Director's determinations and then asserts, without 
elaboration, that the record does not support those determinations. For example, the Petitioner states: 
"Decision erroneously concludes that published material does not discuss petitioner's work despite 
significant evidence to the contrary contained in the record." The Petitioner also states that "the 
decision mis-stated the law, did not consider all evidence contained in the record and erroneously 
concluded that certain evidence was not probative when it was very probative." 
The above assertions, and others like them, do not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact. Rather, the Petitioner makes broad, general claims that the record does not 
support the grounds for denial. The Petitioner refers, several times, to "significant evidence ... in the 
record," but does not identify any specific evidence, or explain how that evidence overcomes the stated 
grounds for denial. Likewise, the Petitioner does not specify how the Director "mis-stated the law" 
or explain how her evidence "was very probative." The Petitioner states that she will elaborate on 
these points in a "brief to be filed within 30 calendar days," but, as noted above, the record contains 
no such brief and no evidence of its submission. 
General assertions that the Director erred, and that the record supports approval of the petition, lack 
the specificity required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18674323 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 02, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the appeal. Thereafter, 
we dismissed a combined motion to reconsider and reopen and a subsequent motion to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on 
an incorrect application oflaw or users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing the appeal, we withdrew the 
Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and decided that the Petitioner did not fulfill 
any of the claimed criteria. We dismissed the first motion, concluding that the Petitioner requested us 
to reconsider our decision without showing how we erroneously applied law or policy. Further, while 
he provided additional documentation, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the new 
evidence demonstrated his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
In our most recent decision dismissing the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, we concluded that he did 
not show how we erroneously applied law or policy, as he submitted a brief mirroring his previous 
motion brief without any mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his combined motions. 
B. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
2 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
As discussed previously, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record of proceeding at the time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner 
submits a brief that is very similar to his previous motion brief. Although the current motion brief 
provides additional information about the Petitioner's admirable struggle against privation to 
successfully train and compete in martial arts, it makes the same arguments as the previous motion 
brief for the awards, published materials, judging, and leading or critical role criteria, without any 
mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his motion. Disagreeing with our conclusions 
without showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of 
the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006). 1 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, 
the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
. . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") 
Further, although the Petitioner now asserts that "most of my medals and all information about me 
participating in all kinds of competitions was collected by my trainer" and "I lost the bulk of my 
diplomas and certifications as a result of his death," he does not explain how the claimed unavailability 
of unspecified additional awards establishes that our prior motion decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 
As he did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior motion, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss the 
current motion to reconsider. 
D. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. As stated previously, a motion to reopen 
must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror 
the Board's definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(l) (stating that a motion to reopen will not be 
granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the 
former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have 
been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean facts that 
are relevant to the issue( s) raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the 
proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting 
1 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board), governed by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 1003 .2(b )(1 ), which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact 
or law in the prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements are fundamentally 
similar to those found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
3 
previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." In the current motion, the Petitioner 
offers previously submitted documentation. As this evidence does not qualify as "new" and we already 
evaluated it in earlier proceedings, we will not further consider it in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner also offers an additional letter of recommendation dated February 2016 from a 
representative of the I IGym inl I Thailand, indicating that the Petitioner trained at 
th~nd competed in a "fight i~ land for a "WMF pro world title in heavyweight division 
inl_______J' between 2013 and 2014. However, the Petitioner has not shown how this letter establishes 
his eligibility under any of the regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, 
we will dismiss his motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our latest decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, and the evidence provided in support of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19045495 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 02, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We initially rejected the Petitioner 's appeal as untimely filed on December 7, 2020. On July 21, 2021, we advised the 
Petitioner that we were withdrawing that rejection and reopening the matter in order to issue a decision on the merits of 
the case. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a director of photography whose credits include...._ ____________ __. 
films produced and released domestically and internationally. The Petitioner indicates his intent to 
continue working as a director of photography for several upcomin~ I projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner has claimed to meet up to eight of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration2; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
2 Although the Petitioner previously claimed he could satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), he does not 
contest the Director's determination that he did not meet this criterion, nor does he otherwise address this criterion on 
appeal. Accordingly , we consider this issue to be waived and will not further address it. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, 
that issue is waived). 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree, as the record establishes 
that the Petitioner is credited as director of photograph= for several films that were screened at 
~-----!film festivals in the .... l _________ __.J 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erred as a matter of fact and misapplied the law 
in evaluating the evidence he provided in support of the remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He maintains that he meets at least three and up to seven of the initial evidentiary 
criteria and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
Before turning to a discussion of the evidentiary criteria, we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion 
that he "currently holds an approved 0-1 petition as a person of extraordinary achievement in the I I industry" and his argument that his 0-1 nonimmigrant status "is prima 
facie evidence that he has met at least three regulatory criteria and has demonstrated a 'record of 
extraordinary achievement' as per 8 CFR 214.2(o)(3)(v)." 
0-1 classification is reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability or achievement. However, 
the prior approval of an 0-1 nonimmigrant petition does not preclude USCIS from denying a 
subsequent immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. In fact, the Petitioner "concedes that the regulations for the 0-1 forl I 
I !productions are not identical to the EB-1 visas of extraordinary ability 
regulations and is not arguing that [his] 0-1 status automatically qualifies for an immigrant visa." We 
emphasize that each nonimmigrant petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record and 
a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the 
information contained in the individual record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence intended to establish his eligibility for classification as an 
immigrant of extraordinary ability, not as a nonimmigrant of extraordinary achievement in thel I 
......._ _______ ~I industry. The Director's decision evaluated the evidence in the record to 
determine if it met the requirements for the immigrant classification sought, while also acknowledging 
the prior 0-1 approvals in his decision. Further, in adjudicating an appeal, we are not bound by the 
prior decisions of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner has been credited as the director of photoraphy on severall I films that 
received awards and award nominations atl _ film festivals. The Director concluded that 
"festival awards are not considered nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor because they are limited to associates, participants or members of the 
3 
festivals."3 We agree with the Petitioner that the record does not support the Director's reasoning. The 
evidence demonstrates that the film festivals rely on a competitive selection process, which results in only 
a fraction of entered films being selected for screening. Further, the record does not indicate that these 
festivals place any strict limitations on who may enter their films for potential selection, such as a 
requirement that filmmakers be "associates" or "members" of the festival or any other group or single 
institution. While not every film festival that is billed as a "national" or "international" festival grants 
awards or prizes that would satisfy this criterion, the Director's suggestion that no film festivals award 
qualifying nationally or internationally recognized prizes is incorrect. 
Nevertheless, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. The Petitioner served as the director of 
photography for films that received festival awards at~---.========.-~Film Festival, I I I I Film Festival,.__ _____ __. Film Festival, I I Film Festival, I I I JFilm Festival, and th~ I Film Festivall l among other festivals. 
However, he did not establish that he received awards from these festivals. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) calls for evidence of "the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards, rather than evidence of an 
individual's participation in award-winning projects. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that "an award granted to a production itself is also an industry 
recognition of the leading team members who produce it." However, the documentation in the record 
does not simply identify award-winning productions. It identifies other individuals, usually directors, as 
the named winners of the awards or prizes. While the Petitioner submitted letters from the producers and 
directors of some of these award-winning films who attest to his critical role in the productions, this 
evidence is not sufficient to establish that he was the recipient of any of these awards. As such, we need 
not evaluate whether those awards were nationally or internationally recognized prizes for excellence in 
his field. 
The Petitioner also seeks to rely on the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) which states that a petitioner 
"may submit comparable evidence" to establish eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
"do not readily apply" to their occupation. He maintains that the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) "does not 'readily apply' to [his] 'occupation' as a Director of Photography." He also 
argues that "the entertainment industry considers nominations for national or international awards to be 
equal recognition of acclaim as the awards themselves." Based on these claims, he states that USCIS 
"should accept the comparable evidence of the award nominations together with awards issued to the 
films produced using [his] cinematography." 
The record does not support the Petitioner's assertion that there are no industry awards applicable to the 
occupation of"director of photography." Specifically, he rrovided evidence indicating that several of the 
festivals mentioned above, including but not limited to the IF estival, thel I 
3 In making this observation, the Director cited to USCTS policy stating that "any limitations on competitors" should be 
considered when evaluating this criterion. See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
(stating that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance 
of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors 
(noting that "an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or international 
significance"). 
4 
□ Film Festival, and thel I Film Festival! l award "Best Cinematography" prizes 
,..........~·...,ectors of hotography. Further, the Petitioner's own submitted filmography indicates that the 2010 
fil for which he is credited as director of photography, won "Best Cinematography" at the 
.__ ______ __,Film Festival in 2011. The only supporting evidence related to this award is a 
screenshot from the website indicating that the film received prizes for "Best 
Photography" and I ~ at the 2012 edition of the festival. The record does not contain any 
additional evidence related ttj I the .__ ______ __, Film Festival, or the national or 
internationally recognition associated with the festival's awards, nor has the Petitioner specifically 
claimed that the "Best Cinematography" award he received at this festival was a qualifying award. 
Nevertheless, given that he submitted some evidence indicating that he has received an award for "Best 
Cinematography," and that his films have been screened at several festivals that award "Best 
Cinematography" or "Best Photography" prizes, his claim that this criterion does not apply to his 
occupation is not persuasive. 
As noted, the Petitioner also emphasizes that nominations for nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards should be considered comparable evidence under this criterion. For the reasons already 
discussed, the record does not support the Petitioner's claim that this criterion does not readily apply to 
his occupation or otherwise established that comparable evidence should be considered under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)( 4). He emphasizes that he served as director of photography forl I which was 
nominated for, but did not win, the prestigiou~ lprize at the 20051 I Film Festival. The 
record reflects that this award is given to the director of the winning film. The Petitioner cannot establish 
his eligibility under this criterion based on evidence that he contributed to a film that earned an award 
nomination for another individual as this does not constitute evidence of his receipt of a nationally or 
internationally recognized award. While his contribution to a film that received al I Film Festival 
award nomination is noteworthy and would be considered in a final merits determination, it cannot serve 
as evidence that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established his receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion based on his membership in the Belgian Society of 
Cinematographers (SBC). To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in this 
association is based on individual members being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field. In support of his claim, he initially 
submitted a letter from SBC co-presiden~ I who states that the society's membership is "a 
highly select group" that includes "several of the most influential professionals." He further states that 
membership is achieved "only through invitation," that it is "a great honor," and that the Petitioner's 
membership in the SBC "was granted on account of his superior credentials and accomplishments in the 
field of Cinematography." 
5 
This letter was accompanied by a screenshot of the SBC website (www.sbcine.be) which provides the 
society's mission statement and lists the current board of governors but does not identify the membership 
requirements or the SBC's procedures for admitting new members. The provided screenshot indicates 
that the SBC's bylaws are available on the website, but the Petitioner did not provide a copy of this 
document.4 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that additional documentation, such 
as the relevant sections of the SBC constitution or bylaws, would be needed to establish the SBC's 
membership criteria and requirements and to demonstrate that the individuals responsible for admitting 
new members are recognized as national or international experts in the field. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a second letter from I la letter from SBC 
membe and a screenshot of~ I 2019 article published on the SBC website titled D 
.__ _____ ---,, __ ....._w.;.;..:;:h:::..ic:..::h::....:::,includes a photograph of the Petitioner, with a summary of his past and 
upcoming work.'------~ states: 
[Members] achieve membership through invitation only based on their achievements in 
cinematography. All SBC members conduct important work in the profession of 
cinematography and enjoy a high level of distinction in the field. To be admitted for SBC 
membership, specifically, a candidate must be sponsored by two existing members of the 
Society. The candidate submits a written statement indicating why they would like to 
join. Candidates are then reviewed by the SBC commission which meets once a year to 
vote on new members to join. New members are accepted only if they are considered to 
have outstanding achievements and receive at least two thirds of the vote in accordance 
with the SBC bylaws. 
In his letterJ I states that he personally "nominated and ushered" the Petitioner into the SBC 
"[ d]ue to his outstanding achievements." He further explains that "SBC members are required to have 
served as director of photography on distinguished films that gained recognition and distinction in the 
industry" and that this "level of achievement is reached by all SBC members." 
In determining that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion, the Director noted that 
the submitted information from the SBC website "did not reveal any detail regarding the organization's 
requirements" for membership, such as the association's bylaws or constitution. The Director further 
observed that "[n]o information established that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to review the letters provided by D I landl I The Petitioner further asserts that "the plain language of the 'membership' 
criterion contains no requirement that an associations' constitution alone satisfy the criterion" and that 
there is "no existing requirement that an association's constitution be available on its website in order to 
satisfy this criterion." He emphasizes that petitioners "should be afforded an opportunity to use any 
relevant and credible evidence to make their case." 
4 Specifically, the provided screenshot of the SBC website shows that the site provides links to downloadable PDF versions 
of the association's statute or bylaws in the French and Dutch languages. 
6 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director should have addressed the letters from D 
I ~nd I lin evaluating this criterion. However, we conclude that their letters alone 
do not establish that the Petitioner's membership in the SBC meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii).I ~ second letter indicates that there is a "commission" within the SBC 
that reviews and votes on prospective members. He does not elaborate on the "commission" or the 
process it undertakes to admit new members, nor does he identify those who vote on prospective members 
~nized national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner submitted evidence thatD 
L___J who has director of photography credits on several major motion pictures, is an internationally 
recognized expert in the field, but the fact that he nominated the Petitioner for SBC membership does not 
lead to a conclusion that the commission that reviews and judges the credentials or achievements of SBC 
prospective members is solely comprised of such experts. 
~--~--~I also states that "new members are accepted only if they are considered to have 
outstanding achievements and receive at least two-thirds of the vote in accordance with the SBC's 
bylaws." I t letter does not, however, identify the section of the bylaws where membership 
requirements are stated, elaborate on how the association defines "outstanding achievement," or 
otherwise address the membership requirements stated in the bylaws that he references. As he does not 
directly quote specific sections of the SBC bylaws, it is unclear whether they use the phrase "outstanding 
achievement" or comparable language, and whether they further define or list criteria identifying what 
the association deems to be qualifying achievement(s). 
The Petitioner maintains that "there is no existing requirement that an association's constitution be 
available on its website in order to satisfy the criterion." As noted above, the screenshot provided from 
the SBC website indicates that the bylaws or statute of the association are publicly available on its website, 
and the Petitioner has had multiple opportunities to submit them for the record. Nevertheless, we 
acknowledge that there is no explicit requirement that a petitioner submit an association's statute, bylaws, 
or constitution as evidence in support of this criterion, and we have considered the alternate evidence that 
the Petitioner submitted. We conclude that the submitted letters do not address the SBC's membership 
criteria and requirements with the necessary specificity, and therefore do not provide sufficient probative 
details to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, and 
author of the material. 5 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of several published articles but 
concluded that none of the published material satisfied all requirements stated in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that four of the previously submitted articles meet 
this criterion and contends that the Director made several errors in evaluating this evidence. 
The Petitioner submitted two articles which feature him and his work as a cinematographer. One of these 
articles, titled.__ ____________ ____, was published by the online magazine VoyageLA. 
The Petitioner submitted information from the magazine's website stating that its "mission is to build a 
platform that fosters collaboration and support for small businesses, independent artists, entrepreneurs, 
local institutions and those that make our city interesting." Based on this limited information regarding 
the intended audience of VoyageLA, it cannot be deemed a professional or trade publication. The 
Petitioner submitted data from HypeStat indicating that voyagela.com receives over 7,000 visitors daily 
and has an Alexa traffic rank of 152,753. He also provided a data from Similar Web which indicates that 
VoyageLA has a global rank of 227,513 and a country rank of 62,138. The Petitioner has not explained 
how this evidence supports a determination that VoyageLA qualifies, in the alternative, as "major media" 
by having a high circulation or distribution relative to other online publications. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the article published by VoyageLA satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility based on an article that he claims was published in Kodak Lens 
Magazine in 2007. The submitted article is accompanied by an English translation and is about the 
Petitioner and his work as a director of photography. However, the submitted copy of the article does not 
identify the date of publication and the title of the magazine that published it, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, the article is not accompanied by any supporting information regarding 
Kodak Lens Magazine, its intended audience, or its circulation or distribution figures relative to other 
magazines. The supporting documentation consists of two articles that discuss Kodak and its standing in 
the photography industry over time; the articles do not mention Kodak Lens Magazine. For these reasons, 
this article does not satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
The two remaining articles that the Petitioner references on appeal were published by The Hollywood 
Reporter and The Washington Post. The Petitioner provided evidence to establish that these qualify as 
major media publications, and that the articles include the required title, date, and author of the published 
material. Therefore, we must evaluate whether the articles are "about" the Petitioner and relating to his 
work. 
ah b·ect of both 2012 articles isl I her relationship with her brother 
, her acting career, and the release of the short film titled! I which feature 
as lead actress, co-director, and executive producer. The Hollywood Reporter article, titled 
.....------.------------------' provides biographical information regarding 
and her personal life and relationships, her previous acting credits, and briefly discusses the 
shooting o~ I at the I }designed! I over a two-day period in 
2009. The Petitioner, who served as director of photography for the short film, was quoted in the portions 
of the article that discuss the film's shooting. He briefly comments about shooting a specific scene and 
about makin~ • I appear younger on film, and he speculates about the cost of rentin th 
lfor the production. The Washington Post article, titled '----------,,-------,---.,....---
.__ _________________ __.' is much shorter, covers similar topics as The Holl;,wood 
8 
Reporter article and links to that article. The article mentions that the Petitioner served as the film's 
cinematographer and he is briefly quoted as stating thatl l"did a good job." 
The Director concluded that The Hollywood Reporter article is not about the Petitioner and did not address 
The Washington Post article, which, as noted above, is similar in its focus and content. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "the Service's regulations and relevant case law do not mandate that 
the entire focus of articles must be on the [petitioner]. " Citing to Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. 
Ill. 1995) and Racine v. INS, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. 1995), the Petitioner maintains that he need 
only establish that "there is published material about him" and submit articles that "demonstrate his 
work within the field." The cited decisions address the specific issue of whether published materials 
about a petitioner must demonstrate that they are "one of the best" the field, at the "top of the field," 
or a "star" in the field. There is nothing in Muni or Racine to suggest that the district court determined 
that any article that mentions a person's name and their field of work should automatically be deemed to 
be "about" that person, regardless of the context or the remaining content of that article. 6 While the 
Petitioner's name is mentioned in The Hollywood Reporter article and he is quoted in those portions 
of the article that mentiow lwe agree with the Director's determination that the article 
is not about him, nor is the similar article that appeared in The Washington Post. 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not shown that any of the submitted articles meet all 
regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly , artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of support from experts in his field 
which are highly complimentary of his work and professional accomplishments . However , the 
Director determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. He included quotes from several letters and 
emphasized that while they discuss the Petitioner's artistic vision and technical knowledge as applied 
to specific productions , the letters lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner 's work has impacted the 
field or how his techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field such as, for example, 
evidence that other directors of photography have adopted his camera or lighting techniques. The 
6 With respect to this criterion, the Court in Muni stated: 
Under the INS' own regulations , all Muni need show is that there is "[p]ublished material about [him] 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [bis] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(3)(iii). The articles Muni submitted, which appeared 
in various newspapers and hockey magazines , clearly fit this requirement ; even the INS admits that some 
of the articles "discuss [Muni's] hitting ability and his record as a defenseman " (Admin.Rec . at 4). 
Id. at 445. 
9 
Director cited case law indicating that users may, in its discretion, consider advisory opinions as 
expert testimony, but that users is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding eligibility. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 r&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "Matter of Caron International is not a blanket permission to 
disregard or dismiss all testimonial evidence because the Director holds a different personal opinion of a 
beneficiary's contributions to the field." He notes that Caron instead "addresses a specific set of facts 
where expert testimony is contradictory or questionable, which may then be dismissed or given less 
weight by the Service. The Petitioner, citing to Matter of Skirball Cultural Center, 25 r&N Dec. 799 
(AAO 2012), states that the testimonial evidence submitted is "uncontroverted" and should be found to 
be "reliable, relevant and probative" absent "specific reasons for questioning the credentials of the experts, 
taking issue with their knowledge, or otherwise finding reason to doubt the veracity of their testimony." 
The Director, however, did not disregard, dismiss, or otherwise fail to consider the submitted expert 
letters. Rather, the decision reflects that he granted some weight to the letters but found them insufficient 
to establish eligibility. It is the Petitioner's burden to both specify his original contributions and to 
document the major significance of those contributions in the field. A petitioner's submission of 
credible letters from reputable individuals in their industry does not automatically lead to a 
determination that this criterion has been satisfied, particularly if the letters do not shed light on the 
specific nature of the original contributions and their impact or influence on the field. Letters of this 
kind can help to explain the nature of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with 
corroborating documentary evidence to establish the major significance of those contributions. Further, 
letters that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and its impact on subsequent work add value, while those that lack specifics do not add value 
and may not be considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
Upon review, we observe that the individuals who provided letters in support of the petition attest to 
the Petitioner's artistic and technical talents as a cinematographer, list his film credits, highlight the 
critical or commercial success of certain films, and contain assertions that he is well known, highly 
regarded, and in demand throughout the industry. We have no reason to question the credentials of 
the industry experts who provided letters in support of the petition or to doubt the credibility of their 
statements or the sincerity of their praise for the Petitioner's work. However, the letters focus on the 
Petitioner's contributions to specific projects or his overall standing in the field rather than specifically 
articulating how his contributions are of major significance in the field and have impacted subsequent 
work. We address a representative sample of the letters below but have reviewed and considered each 
one. 
Cinematographer! I who worked with the Petitioner on the filml I states that 
his contributions were "critical to the production's success," "elevated the story with his artful 
compositions, his stellar lighting and his fluid camera moves, and "demonstrated working knowledge 
of camera equipment and techniques ... superior to the overwhelming majority of his peers." Director 
and visual effects supervisorl I who has worked with the Petitioner on several commercial 
projects, states that he "possesses the unique talent and skill to make every project ... successful," is 
"well-regarded among his industry peers," is a "true artist who paints the most beautiful images with 
7 See USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
10 
light onto the screen" and "brings out the best in every production and every person that he works 
with." Director! ~who worked with the Petitioner on the feature film~ I andlstates that his "artistic vision and expertise" led these films to achieve 
"tremendous success" and praises his "artistic intuition, technical expertise and deep knowledge of 
filmmaking." I I a visual effects artist and supervisor who worked with the 
Petitioner on several films, credits him with being able to "frame and capture shots that most other 
cinematographers are simply incapable of achieving" and emphasizes that the Petitioner has been 
involved in commercially and critically successful projects and that his services are in demand. 
While the letters submitted with the initial filing describe the Petitioner's original contributions to 
specific productions in some detail, they do not comment on how these contributions to individual 
projects were of major significance, such that they had a remarkable influence or impact in the field 
of cinematography. 
The Petitioner provided additional expert testimony in response to the Director's RFE. I I 
who produced! land~------~ stjtes that ~he Petitioner's 
contributions to these two films "were new, original and entirely his own."~---~j asserts that "he 
devised, carried out, captured and presented extraordinary cinematography used in these films, which 
both went on to enjoy major significance in our industry." He describes the Petitioner's work in 
technical detail and notes that the films received significant film festival awards that are "among the 
highest milestones in thel I genre." The Petitioner also maintained that these two films, 
"provoked wides read public commentary in the field." In this re ard, he submitted reviews, articles 
an rankin s from media sources · I ,I D 
~------' andl I 
~---....,........ While these films received recognition from.___ _ _. film festivals and online media 
focused on thel lgenre, this recognition has not been linked to the Petitioner's cinematographic 
contributions to the movies and does not establish how those contributions were of"major significance 
in the field" consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml O )who produced and directed thd~-------' 
feature I 11 I credits the Petitioner with delivering "elegant cinematography," 
with managing "all camera and lighting decisions in the production to artfully author new original 
visual imagery," and with creating an atmosphere of I 11 I 
asserts that "[r]eaching the level that [the Petitioner] has in this industry, which amounts to the highest 
level in the field, itself constitutes an original contribution of major significance." Whild I 
asserts that the Petitioner's standing in the field alone represents an original contribution of major 
significance, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) does not indicate that attaining "the highest 
level in the field" is a relevant factor in determining whether an individual has made an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, a petitioner's overall standing in the field is 
evaluated in a final merits determination.I !praises the Petitioner's artistic and technical work 
onl land his overall success in the filmmaking industry but does not identify how his 
contributions to this film have impacted subsequent work in the field of cinematography. 
In a second letter submitted in response to the RFEJ I states that the Petitioner has used "his 
exceptional camera and lighting skills" to make original contributions to numerous award-winning 
productions, including "several short films that have major significance in the industry." Specifically, 
11 
he hi hli hts the fact that six of the Petitioner's short films "have exhibited and won awards at 
film festivals."! lasserts that "winning awards atl I 
L.;-------...,.._f_e_st-iv_a_l_s__,means your film is then shortlisted for I I, the highest 
recognition that exists in film." He further states that "by contributing essential cinematography to 
films that have been shortlisted for~-----~ [the Petitioner] has performed work in this 
industry that is outstanding, substantial and meaningful."81 l appears to equate the Petitioner's 
contributions to short films that were potentially eligible foJ I voting with original 
contributions of major significance, but this interpretation of "major significance" does not take into 
account the requirement that the Petitioner demonstrate how his specific contributions have impacted 
or influenced subsequent work in his field. 
Overall, the letters submitted in response to the RFE pointed to media coverage of the Petitioner's 
films, awards or award nominations received by those films, and his overall standing and reputation 
in his field, but do not contain specific, detailed information identifying or explaining the unusual 
influence his work has had in his field. The Petitioner similarly maintains his films have been "widely 
recognized, written about, and discussed, and are plainly evidenced as being considered important and 
impactful in the field" and states that "an individual who is not making influential original 
contributions simply would not be able to gamer such recognition in his field." 
However, we emphasize that evidence related to awards, award nominations, published materials, and 
the critical and commercial success of the Petitioner's work has been considered under the appropriate 
criteria. None of that evidence specifically recognizes the Petitioner for making an original 
contribution of major significance that has impacted or influenced his field, nor does the record 
sufficiently establish a connection between that evidence and the significance of any original 
contributions he has made to the field of cinematography. For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect 
a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 9 At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a critical role as a Director of 
Photography for a slew of commercially successful blockbuster films." He submitted box office 
receipts obtained from the website Box Office Mojo for the following four films: 
8 The Petitioner submitted a co of the 'for the.__ ______ ~ and a copy 
of the.__ ____________ __. This evidence indicates that a film that wins a qualifying award at the listed 
festivals is eligible.__ ______ __.voting. While the six of the Petitioner's short films were selected for screening 
at five of these festivals the record does not establish that any qfthe films received one of the specific awards listed in the 
-----------.-------'' For exampleJ~--,--~Jwas nominated for qualifting awards at and at the 
.__ _________ ~F_i_lm_F_e_st_iv_,al but did not win either award. The filml~ ___ j~received an ·.__..--------t 
Award" at th Film Festival, but the only qualifying awards listed for this festival are.__ ___ ~ 
for Best~-~ Short Film and Bes~ I Short Film. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
12 
• I 1(2013) -The report from Box Office Mojo indicates that the film has achieved 
$6.8 million in gross receipts inl I and $477,341 itj I 1t ranked second in the 
c==]market in its first weekend ofrelease inl I 2013 with over $4 million in sales.10 
• ~2015)-The report shows total gross receipts of $3.35 million inl I It ranked 
second in the I I market in its first weekend of release with $1.4 million in receipts. • I t2007)-The report indicates total gross receipts of$97,785 i1 I and 
it ranked 11th durin its opening weekend in the I I and I _ market with 
27 490 in recei ts i 2007. 
• .__ _________ ____. (2013) -The Box Office Mojo report indicates lifetime gross 
domestic receipts of $122,305 and an "all time domestic rank" of 11,012 in the U.S. market. 
The Director determined that, while the Petitioner submitted some documentation of box office 
receipts, he did not provide sufficient supporting evidence to establish that any of the films on which 
he is credited as a director of photography enjoyed commercial success relative to other films. 11 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's determination that the record contained "no 
evidence" demonstrating the relative commercial success of his films, noting that the figures from Box 
Qffice Mojo included weekly rankings for each film m its res ective market. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that "in its opening release weekend----......--.--t2013,I lgrossed 
$4,022,572 making it the #2 highest-grossing film in,__ _ ___.ahead of other major motion picture 
earners inl ~t the same time." He makes a similar claim regarding the filml I which also 
ranked second in thd I market during its opening weekend. 
The Petitioner also submits more completd I and box office data from Box Office 
Mojo for thq 12013 openin weekend o As noted, it ranked second in both 
markets among movies that were i_,__ _______ ___, theatres the same weekend. However, we 
cannot determine based on a single weekend's receipts how the film performed overall relative to 
others in these markets. The evidence indicates that the film's overall gross receipts inl I were 
over $6.8 million. Whil~ I earned over $4 million in its opening weekend, there were 10 
other films ranked in the top 25 that weekend that had alread su assed $6.8 million in recei ts in 
,__ __ ~I For example, movies such ;:i~ ., ., l and all 
had cumulative gross receipts between $25 million and $40 million in th ,__ _ ___. market as o 
.'-----:-:-,-' 2013. Similarly, six of the movies in the box office's top 10 during the same weekend had 
also already outperformed.__ ____ ___. in terms of gross receipts in that market. This evidence 
illustrates that a single weekend's box office receipts do not reflect a film's overall commercial success 
relative to other films released in the same markets, and the Petitioner has not provided evidence that 
would allow for comparisons of total receipts over a longer period of time. 
10 The Petitioner stated in his cover letter accompanying the initial submission that this film earned over $23.6 million 
domestically and "a total of $80.573.774 worldwide." However, he did not submit any corroborating evidence of the 
film's U.S. or global receipts. 
11 The Director also raised concerns regarding that the evidence from Box Office Mojo do not "show how the foreign 
currency was converted into United States currency." The Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to establish that Box 
Office Mojo is a reliable source of sales figures and rankings and we do not share the Director's concerns regarding the 
reported sales figures. 
13 
The Petitioner has also requested review of previously submitted testimonial evidence which addresses 
the commercial success of his work. s ecifically, the letter from I the producer and director 
ofl I film,......_ _____ _,, states that he and his team "were informed by the studio's 
leading executives tha .__ __ ____,, __ __.,was one of I ts most watched original films of 2018" 
and "was the number one film fo_,__ __ _.ori inal or otherwise, in nearly every single territory around 
the globe" in its initial month of release. also emphasized that the film's viewershi 
surpassed that of two other.__~----- released in the same month_...___----.- _______ __. I I and I !starring~---~ Finally, he explains that~-~deems information 
regarding viewership to be proprietary and it is therefore not reported by media sources.12 
The Petitioner submits additional evidence related tol I and its standing asl I provider 
of streaming film and television content. We observe that the "commercial success" criterion is 
inherently sales based, while I I subscribers pay a flat fee for unlimited streaming, such that 
individual movies do not generate "sales" in the traditional sense. The Petitioner maintains 
nevertheless that "becoming one oti ~ s most watche films in a given year amounts to 
a major commercial success in the performing arts." However,..._ __ ....,...._.., letter, which relates 
general, second-hand information from unidentified sources withi does not provide sufficient 
information regarding the commercial success of relative to that of other streaming 
service movie releases. While the Petitioner emphasizes tha ___ ~does not release this information 
for media reporting, it has not been established this information is otherwise unobtainable for any 
purpose. 
Testimonial evidence in the record indicates thatl ras sold tol lfor $1.8 million, 
but the record does not provide a contract or any context for this figure to establish that it would be 
considered a "commercial success" relative to other content sold for streaming as al I 
For these reasons, even if the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) allowed for 
the submission of streaming data and rankings or some other measure of "commercial success" in lieu 
of box office receipts, additional evidence would be needed to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion based on the commercial success of1 I 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which relates to whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue.13 
1~ btated tha~ I has an industry-wide standard that they do not release numbers or ratings with regards to 
how many times a film and/or episode of television on their platform is viewed." 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
14 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he has worked on some successful film projects and has received recognition for 
his work as a director of photography. But he has not shown that this recognition rises to the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18328606 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 07, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -fust on the Petitioner's motion, and later treating 
an untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v)(B)(J). Both times, the 
Director again denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, concluding that, although 
she met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, she had not established eligibility in the final 
merits analysis. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application o_flaw or policy. The requirements 
of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our appellate decision, we noted that the Petitioner asserts that she "has obtained the highest level of 
fame in her nativel land international recognition in pop singing." The record shows the Petitioner 
performed on the televised! 
1 lcompyition program. Media interviews in 2009 and 2014 mention 
she worked as a "specialist" at 's Ministry of Culture but provide few details about this 
employment. The Petitioner also acted in the filml I (2015), but the record does not indicate 
that she has continued to pursue acting work. We also noted that the record shows the Petitioner has spent 
an increasing amount of time in the United States since 2015. Her most recent entry was in 2017 as a 
B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure. She later changed status to an O-lB nonimmigrant with 
extraor,inary ability in the arts through a petition filed b~ I and operates 
a studio where she provides voice lessons to children. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In our decision 
dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she also satisfied the criterion relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Because we concluded that the Petitioner satisfied 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, we conducted a final merits determination in which we 
reviewed the record as a whole, including the evidence the Petitioner submitted under other claimed 
criteria.1 As discussed above, in a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 Based on this review, 
we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not overcome our prior 
decision. 
1 During the course of the proceeding, the Petitioner had also claimed to meet the criteria relating to membership in 
associations at § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), display at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that 
USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the 
petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant 
classification). 
2 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our evaluation of the submitted media coverage about 
her and relating to her work. The Petitioner maintains that she submitted "a plethora of media 
coverage" and "[t]he fact thatl lmedia continues to reach [her] is already an indication of the 
continued interest froml I population for her" and "proof of the sustained acclaim" she enjoys 
"as a topl I pop singer." Our appellate decision focused, in part, on several articles the 
Petitioner submitted that specifically relate to her and her work as one indicator of whether she has 
enjoyed "a career of acclaimed work" in the field as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). In our final merits determination, we concluded that the record, irluding I 
media reporting on her and her activities, indicates that the Petitioner had a successful career in 
but it does not establish that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim up to the time of filing in July 
2018. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner has not established on motion that we misapplied 
the law or USCIS policy in reaching this conclusion based on the evidence she submitted. 
For instance, as discussed in our decision, in a translated September 2015 interview, conducted shortly 
after a two-month visit to the United States, the Petitioner stated: 'I I is too small, you can become 
~with one clip and one song. In America everyone sings .... After [a television appearance in 
L___J, when I was walking in the streets everyone asked me [for] autographs and it is not happening 
in [the] USA." In the same interview, the Petitioner explained that she found work performing in I I lounges, and promotional fliers reproduced in the record corroborate this public 
statement, advertising her performances at small venues such as restaurants, coffee shops, and cultural 
centers. We noted that this interview took place almost three years before the petition's filing date, and 
the record does not show that her career gained momentum afterward. Although the Petitioner appeared 
onl I's version of Dancing with the Stars in 2016, the record does not document any comparably 
high-profile activity since then. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues on motion that although she "has risen to the very top of the field of 
pop singing in I I and not in the USA" we must also "take into the fact whatever achievements 
[the Petitioner] has reached in the USA while she has been here." Our appellate decision did examine 
the Petitioner's most recent professional accomplishments and concluded that the record does not show 
that she has earned sustained national acclaim in the United States. Rather, we f01ed ~a~:~: f ecognition 
in the United States appears to be largely confined to the I O I community in .......... ~_......... We noted 
thatl jnedia continued to interview her after she relocated to the United States, but in those 
3 
interviews, she discusses staying at home with a new child, teaching singing lessons, and singing at 
corporate events. The Petitioner has not documented any U.S. media coverage apart from local,I I 
language media. The Petitioner has not shown on motion that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy 
in reaching this determination based on the documentation submitted . 
For example, one such article from 2017 discussed the Petitioner's achievements between 2001 and 2015 
and stated that "[h ]er dream is to conquer I I . . . . Meanwhile she shares her mastery with I I children, participates in charity concerts, and recently she performed at [all [estival." 
We also noted that the Petitioner sang at the opening of a fashion show inl 11 I media 
reported that the Petitioner "performed atl !Fashion Week," but photographs from the event 
show the legend 1 I Fashion Week." We found that the Petitioner had not established that the two 
names correspond to the same event, or that one is a part of the other. Although on motion the Petitioner 
provides screenshots from the website of§ashion Week, to show the two "are very much 
related events," these items show only that Fashion Week organizes short film and fashion 
festivals including inl !during Fashion Week, not that one is fart oftr other. 
Further, we noted that the Petitioner toldl I interviewers that her performance at Fashion 
Week generated "a huge response," but the record does not include any U.S. media coverage of the event. 
Moreover, we determined that although the Petitioner's other recent performances have been tied to I I cultural events, some of which have been at well-known locations, such as the I I I ! the Petitioner had not shown that these appearances generated attention 
at a level consistent with national or international acclaim, or that her participation was highlighted either 
before or after the events. For instance, a printout from the I l's website discusses a 
performance by the I I but the Petitioner's name does not appear in the article. 
Further, the Petitioner asserts on motion that she was asked to act in the movie I I "to 
capitalize on her popularity and reach a wider audience," and she provides a screenshot from IMDbPro 
of the cast listing forl I showing she performed the role of I I While our appellate 
decision acknowledged that the Petitioner acted in the film, our final merits analysis did not further 
discuss it as we noted the record does not indicate that she has continued to pursue acting work. 
Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to 
policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Cf 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006).3 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal 
issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") 
Finally, the Petitioner argues on motion that her prior approval as an 0-1 nonimmigrant 
of extraordinary ability in the arts "as a pop singer ... popular among I I' automatically 
establishes eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability classification. Extraordinary ability in the 
field of arts in the nonimmigrant context, however, means distinction, which is not the same as 
3 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board oflmmigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(b)(l) , 
which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the 
prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority. " These requirements are fundamentally similar to those 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) , and therefore the same logic applies. 
4 
sustained national or international acclaim. Section 101(a)(46) of the Act explicitly modifies the 
criteria for the 0-1 extraordinary ability classification in such a way that makes the nonimmigrant 
0-1 criteria less restrictive for an individual in the arts, and thus less restrictive than the criteria for 
immigrant classification pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, while USCIS has 
previously approved an 0-1 nonimmigrant petition for the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, and 
ultimately concluded that while the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria, she did 
not establish the required sustained national or international acclaim for this highly restrictive 
classification. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence before us at the time of our decision or that it was based 
on a misapplication of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements for a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss her motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 17811592 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a stage actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, which we dismissed. The matter is now before us on an 
untimely motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I.MOTION REQUIREMENTS
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§103.5(a)(2). In addition, a motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and
be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an
incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2)
establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time
of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit.
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)( l )(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. To merit reopening, a petitioner must not only 
meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. We 
cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, through counsel, acknowledges that her motion is untimely. Ordinarily, a petitioner 
must file a motion to reopen or reconsider no later than 33 days after the date of the decision for which 
that petitioner seeks reconsideration. 1 Under special rules that USCIS implemented during the current 
COVID-19 pandemic, a petitioner may generally file a motion up to 63 days after the issuance of a 
mailed decision. 2 The Petitioner's filing arrived 77 days after we mailed our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this period expires may be excused in the 
discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the 
control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). For the reasons discussed below, 
we conclude that the Petitioner filed her motion to reopen late and has not demonstrated that the 
untimely filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 
In a statement accompanying the late motion, counsel for the Petitioner states: 
In March 2020, USCIS began extending flexibilities for responding to certain motions 
and decisions as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic allowing for an 
additional sixty (60) calendar days after the response due date. See Exhibit BB for a 
copy of the USCIS notice released on September 11, 2020 regarding the extension for 
responding to agency requests for notices issued between March 1, 2020 and January 
1, 2021. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of the USCIS alert outlining the extended COVID-19 flexibilities, 
which clearly states that USCIS will consider a Form I-290B received up to 60 days from the date of 
the decision before we take action. The Petitioner, however, argues that the notice is misleading 
because it conflates the period for responding to a Form I-290B with the response period for other 
agency notices and requests, such as requests for evidence, which are afforded a longer response 
period. Consequently, the Petitioner asks us to excuse the motion's untimely filing. 
As noted above, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B 
to account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, and the USCIS alert 
outlining the response due date specifically states, in a sentence distinct from those discussing the 
response period for other agency requests and notices, that a Form I-290B must be filed within 60 days 
of the date the decision was issued. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing was reasonable and beyond her control. The 
Petitioner's excuse for the untimely filing of the motion does not demonstrate that she has met this 
burden, and we will not exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his motion to reopen. While 
we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the agency guidance on COVID-19 flexibilities was 
confusing, the deadline for filing an appeal or motion on Form I-290B under the extended COVID-19 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) and 103.8(b). 
2 USCIS Alert, "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," (Jun. 24, 2021), 
https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-extends- flexibility- for-responding-to-agency-requests-4 (last visited Sep. 9, 
2021); see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b) (adding three days to filing deadlines ifUSCIS serves decisions or notices by mail). 
2 
flexibilities is specifically and clearly outlined in the USCIS alert referenced by the Petitioner, and we 
are not persuaded by the Petitioner's assertions to the contrary. 
The motion to reopen will be dismissed as untimely filed, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Because there is no comparable authority extended to an untimely filed motion to reconsider, the 
Petitioner's untimely motion to reconsider will also be dismissed. See id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen and motion to reconsider was filed untimely. Thus, the motions do not meet 
applicable requirements. We must therefore dismiss them. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 18315172 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 9, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neurology , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in neurobiology au I University, China, in 2010. Some of her doctoral 
studies also took place at the University ofi I. Following an associate professorship, also 
atl I the Petitioner entered the United States in May 2019 as a J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor to 
work as a research scholar atc=J 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
of the work of others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all three claimed criteria, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that she satisfies this criterion 
because she has made several important discoveries in her field, described in highly-cited scholarly 
articles. In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged the citation of the Petitioner's work, but 
concluded that the Petitioner did not show "the reason the citations are notable or the impact the 'notable' 
citations have had on the field as a whole." The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's submission 
of reference letters, but concluded that these letters are not "preexisting, independent, and objective 
evidence" of the significance of the Petitioner's work. As explained below, we disagree with the 
Director's conclusions, to some extent. 
At the time the Petitioner filed the petition, the Google Scholar database showed over 1000 citations of 
her published articles, with four articles having been cited over 100 times each. The U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Manual states "a goodly number" of such citations "may be 
probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 1 Hundreds more 
1 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
citations have appeared more recently. These newest citations do not establish eligibility at the time of 
filing, but they do speak to the field's ongoing reliance on the cited works. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Nevertheless, 
the record does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice 
to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final 
merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence 
to determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
When considering the evidence submitted to show the Petitioner's acclaim and recognition in the field, 
the Director must consider whether or not the record corroborates assertions both from the Petitioner and 
in letters written specifically to support the petition. For example, an associate editor of the Journal of 
Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism claims "we only invite extraordinary and top scientists to review our 
manuscripts." An associate editor of CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics claims the journal invited the 
Petitioner to review manuscripts "due to her extraordinary research ability and her outstanding 
reputation." The record lacks objective documentary support for these claims. 
Some messages inviting the Petitioner to review manuscripts include this passage: "If you are unable to 
find the time to referee for us we would value your recommendation of one of your colleagues or of any 
expert in the field." There is no reference to any credentials or level of achievement apart from subject 
matter expertise. Without objective evidence to show that the journal publishers limit their peer review 
opportunities to recognized and acclaimed researchers, the Petitioner's peer review work does not 
establish the acclaim and recognition required for the classification she seeks. 
Moreover, a curriculum vitae in the record shows that the Petitioner's doctoral advisor is an "editorial 
board member for 13 professional journals," including both of the journals named above. That advisor 
signed several of the peer review invitations from CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics. This close 
involvement by the Petitioner's mentor appears to have direct and significant consequences regarding 
claims as to how the Petitioner came to be a peer reviewer for those journals. The Director must keep 
such factors in mind when weighing the record for the final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18053708 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional bodybuilding athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, she did not 
establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a professiona~ I athlete and coach. She states that 
she intends to continue competing and coaching in the sport in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that she met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional 
publications or major media, and judging the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in her field, leading or critical roles with organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation, and high salary in relation to others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (viii) and (ix). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that she met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
analysis fails to address most of the evidence she submitted and should be overturned or remanded for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the final merits analysis is lacking a detailed discussion 
of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence 
relating to seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly 
addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined she had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. Such evidence included multiple expert opinion letters 
that address her standing in the field, evidence related to her professional memberships, and evidence 
of her roles and contributions as a coach and athlete. Because the Director did not consider any of this 
evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated her eligibility for the requested classification. 
Further, the decision reflects that the Director applied an incorrect standard in evaluating the 
Petitioner's awards and media coverage in the final merits determination. As noted, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had received nationally or internationally recognized awards and that 
she had submitted published materials about her in major media. With respect to the awards, the 
Director concluded that they "do not establish that the [Petitioner's] work influenced the field as a 
whole." Similarly, in discussing the published materials about the Petitioner, the Director stated that 
the evidence does not "show how the published material about [her] work influenced the field" and 
that the media attention she received does not show how she has made "contributions of . . a 
compelling interest." 
In reaching these conclusions the Director appears to have applied standards applicable to the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence that an individual's original 
contributions in their field have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, have provoked 
widespread commentary in the field of endeavor, or have otherwise been of major significance in the 
field. The Petitioner is not required to demonstrate in the final merits analysis that the awards she 
received in athletic competitions are indicative of "influence" in her field, that published materials 
about her in the media reflect that she has made "contributions of ... a compelling interest," or that 
such media articles "influenced the field." 
In addition, we observe that the Director's analysis of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) was not sufficient to apprise her of any deficiencies he observed in the submitted 
evidence. The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her membership in the I I 
Professional League as well as the Russian I I federation, and she submitted various types 
of evidence in support of her claim that her memberships satisfy this criterion. In denying the petition, 
the Director states that the Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in "thee=] and the 
I I' and concluded, without additional explanation or discussion of the evidence that "the listed 
associations do not require outstanding achievements as an essential condition for admission to 
membership." 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
3 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for all the reasons discussed above, the 
Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in 
support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Further, as the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria, the 
Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17570790 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, I I film actress, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement through either a one-time 
achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of the criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner isl I film actress who has appeared in many films and videos. The evidence 
shows that she has received severall I industry awards and been nominated for others. She 
states that she intends to continue working in this field as an actress in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner initially claimed to be a recipient of major, internationally recognized awards based 
upon her receipt of the.__ _____ ___,' award in 2015 and 2016, as well as wins in other categories 
in later years. However, the Director concluded that these awards did not qualify as major, 
internationally recognized awards, and the Petitioner does not challenge this decision with any 
specificity or offer additional arguments on appeal. We therefore consider this issue to be abandoned. 
See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's 
claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x ). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in her field, and published media about her and her work in the field. After review, we 
agree with those conclusions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts her previous claims that she also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to a leading or critical role, the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and 
2 
commercial success in the performing arts.1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that the record does not support a conclusion that she meets the requirements of any of these criteria, 
and thus does not meet the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In his decision to deny the Petitioner's petition, the Director concluded that this criterion applies only 
to the display of physical works of art such as sculptures and paintings, not to musical or acting 
performances. He relied for this interpretation upon the district court decision in Negro-Plumpe v. 
Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008). However, in contrast to the broad 
precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court, the AAO is not bound to follow 
the published decision of a United States district court in cases arising within the same district. See 
Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision 
will be given due consideration when it is properly before the AAO; however, the analysis does not 
have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. Notably, the plain language of this criterion does 
not specify a particular form that a Petitioner's work must take in order to meet this criterion, only that 
it be displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase. 2 We therefore withdraw that aspect of the 
Director's decision. 
The Petitioner responded to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) by highlighting evidence that 
her image appeared on billboards promoting an industry convention inl I as well as on box 
covers for DVDs of her movies. On appeal, she adds that her films and videos have appeared on 
streaming services, television, and at various exhibitions, such as thel I awards and trade 
show. However, in neither of these responses has she explained or established why these should be 
considered to be artistic in nature. We note that in her RFE response, the word "artistic" was used 
only in the title of the section addressing this criterion, not to specifically refer to any of the displays 
of her movies, whereas evidence was submitted under a different criterion regarding the commercial 
value of the appearance of her work on streaming services, websites, and DVDs. 
As for the conventions and award shows, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner served as a I I for several of the I I conventions inl I which included being personally 
available to take pictures with and sign autographs for attendees, and on one occasion accepted an 
award via Facetime. Similarly, for thd !convention and award show inl O I, she appeared 
on promotional material for the event. But while the evidence states that these conventions included 
live performances, autograph booths, and product exhibitions, it does not show that the Petitioner's 
movies were shown at these venues. Further, even if the movies, or snippets of the movies, were 
shown, these events have not been shown to be artistic in nature, but rather are focused on the 
1 As with her claim to have received a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner also does not specifically 
contest the findings of the Director relating to two additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (vi). For the 
same reason her claim to a major, internationally recognized award has been abandoned, we will also consider her claims 
to those criteria abandoned. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, stating that in 
the first step of the two-step adjudication of petitions under this classification, USCIS officers should dete1mine only if the 
evidence objectively meets the regulatory criteria. 
3 
promotion of actors, products, and business in th _______ ____, industry. Therefore, for all of 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a role which was leading or critical for 
an organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. If a petitioner claims to have served in a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
alien is ( or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or 
was), in fact, leading. On the other hand, if a critical role is claimed, the evidence must establish that 
the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the 
petitioner's performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the petitioner's 
role, but rather the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 3 
The Petitioner initially submitted letters from several businesses in the rdustryl in support 
of this criterion, including! I .__ _______ ___. and Evidence 
was also submitted regarding her activities for other companies, including .__ _______ ____, I ll I, and I I In responding to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner stated that 
she "stand[s] by our original submission." The Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
established that she played a qualifying role for these organizations, or that any of them have a 
distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that she meets this criterion based on her role with most of these 
organizations, and submits new evidence pertaining to these and other establishments. While she 
refers to section 3. 8(b) of the AA O Practice Manual for the proposition that we will accept new 
evidence on appeal, we note that she specifically declined to submit such evidence when it was 
requested by the Director. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the 
evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept 
evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In addition, the majority of this new evidence is dated 
after the filing of the petition, and either relates to events that occurred after that date or to an unknown 
date. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
We will therefore limit our review to the evidence in the record at the time of the Director's decision. 
This evidence includes a letter froml I project organizer for I I who 
verifies that the Petitioner was featured "in the past several conventions" as a •I l,, melgl 
that she had a booth at the convention and worked with the company to promote the convention. I lalso writes that the Petitioner was selected to moderate the main stage at the convention. 
However, she does not indicate that the Petitioner acted as a leader, either for the convention or the 
company itself, or that her role as a I I was critical to any success that the company may 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 
have enjoyed. A webpage which the Petitioner states is forl I shows pictures of more than 
60 actors, and thereby detracts from any claim that she held a leading position for the company. 
Another letter was written by I I CEO ofl l who indicates that his 
company worked with the Petitioner to create figurines I I of her for sale, along with 
other I I actresses. He states that the 3D model of the Petitioner is "one of our top selling 
items." But other than serving as a model and allowing herself to be scanned and photographed, 
presumably for a licensing fee, he does not state that the Petitioner played a critical role for the 
company, and there is no suggestion that she acted as a leader in this role. 4 
In support of her role withl I the Petitioner initiall submitted a letter from its CEO, I I He writes that the company, a producer of DVDs, works most frequently 
with the Petitioner in producing feature length films. ,__ __ _,adds that the Petitioner's DVDs are 
"the most popular and most viewed," and that the company has "sold many of DVDs featuring" her. 
We note that an article posted on the website! I states that the Petitioner and her husband 
founded and own this company, which it describes as a holding company, as well as its subsidiary 
~--------~The article also quotes the Petitioner as explaining that at the time (October 
2017) the company consisted of she and her husband and three other employees. This evidence is 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner plays a leading or critical role forl I 
However, the Petitioner has not established thatl I has a distinguished reputation.D 
states in his letter that the company produced IO DVDs in 2017, and "is currently building 
s biggest B2C (business to cons~ website, B2B 
~(_b_u_s-in_e_s_s_t_o_b_u_s-in_e_s_s )-d-i-st-n-.b-u-t1-. o-n-p-la_,tform, and is highly invested in~ biggest~ 
I companies." However, these statements are not supported by independent, documentary 
~ev_i_d_e_n-ce __ _.A page from the website I I shows several DVDs featuring the Petitioner as 
listed for sale, but this evidence does not speak to the company's re utation beyond confirming its 
production of a small number of DVDs. Further, the article on comments upon the 
Petitioner's reputation, which it indicates led to the foundation of but not on the 
company's reputation. The evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that~ _____ _, or its 
subsidiary! I has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also continues to assert that she plays a leading or critical role forl ,I which 
she describes as ' " The Au ust 18 2017 
article og I described above states that is "the official s okes erson fo 
I I which it describes as ~--~------------ ............ ' The Petitioner's 
position with this company is also confirmed by other media articles in the record, as well as an article 
about the company's anniversary party in a~-------~ magazine,! I 
However, this evidence does not confirm that as a spokesperson, the Petitioner served in a leading or 
critical role. Notably, the evidence does not include details about this role from officials of the 
company, such as the ways in which she acted as spokesperson and any positive impact that she had 
on the company as a spokesperson. 
4 We note that on appeaL the Petitioner submitted a second letter froml ,I dated December 29, 2019 and stating 
that the Petitioner joined the company as its CEO and leading consultant. Even ifwe were to consider this new evidence 
on appeal, it has minimal evidentiaiy weight, as the letter is not signed by I I and does not explain why he continues 
to identify himself as the company's CEO. 
5 
Even fewer details were submitted regarding her role as I t' forl [ with 
the evidence limited to two similar press releases which appeared onl I andl I As these 
appear to be mainly promotional in nature and do not provide details about the Petitioner's duties in 
this role, this evidence does not show that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for this 
establishment. 
After review of all of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner submitted several types of evidence under this criterion, including screenshots showing 
the number of times her movies or videos had been viewed, as well as evidence related to the sale of 
physical DVDs featuring her and receipts for subscription services that allow customers to view her 
movies and videos. In his decision, the Director concluded that since this evidence did not include 
box office receipts and sales receipts, the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. Also, the Director 
noted that the figures calculated by the Petitioner's representative were not supported by evidence in 
the record. 
The record includes pages from several websites, including in some instances the Petitioner's profile 
page on those websites, which shows the number of times that videos featuring her as an actress have 
been viewed. The Petitioner asserts that due to the changing nature of the way movies and videos are 
viewed, and the evidence of the effects of the eovrD 19 pandemic on box office sales as movie 
theatres in the United States closed for most of 2020, the number of views of the movies and videos 
in which the Petitioner appeared should be considered as comparable to the type of evidence called 
for under this criterion. 
We first note that in her appeal brief: the Petitioner refers to guidance from the users Policy Manual 
relating to the 0-1 nonimmigrant visa classification for her interpretation of the comparable evidence 
regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), instead of the section of the users Policy Manual pertaining to 
the immigration benefit sought. In addition, despite claiming that this criterion does not apply to her 
occupation, the Petitioner has submitted evidence pertaining to sales of DVDs featuring her work, as 
well as receipts from a website which operates on a subscription model for the viewing of her work. 
She has therefore not established that this criterion does not apply to her occupation. 
However, assuming arguendo that she has established that this criterion does not apply to her 
occupation, and that the type of evidence she has submitted is in fact comparable to that specifically 
called for under this criterion, the Petitioner has still not established that she has enjoyed commercial 
success as a performing artist. First, regarding the number of times her videos and movies have been 
viewed or streamed across multiple websites, the Petitioner does not provide an exact or even 
approximate figure, stating only that this number is in the "tens of millions." Although the evidence 
does include evidence of those numbers from some of these websites, including the Petitioner's profile 
page onl I showing that her videos have been viewed a total of 5.5 million times, the 
evidence from other websites such as I I show far fewer, and the record lacks evidence of 
6 
the total number of views from other websites she mentions. Vague estimations which are not 
supported by documentary evidence cannot form the basis of a successful claim under this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that a certain quantity of streams or 
views of her videos and movies, whether considered individually or as a whole, can serve as a gauge 
of commercial success. On appeal, she puts forth the following explanation: 
The more streams a film gamers the more popular it is and the more revenue it 
generates. Streaming sites ... generate revenue through ad sales. The more streams or 
views a film gamers, the more the streaming site charges for ads. In the world of the 
internet, the more persons attracted to a website, the more advertisers pay to be placed 
on that website. 
While we do not dispute this general description of the business model used by some websites, it 
describes only an indirect connection between the number of views or streams of an individual's work 
and any commercial success it may enjoy. For that reason, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner 
is insufficient to show that is insufficient that her videos and films which have been streamed and 
viewed on such websites have been commercially successful. 
The Petitioner also submitted some evidence of sales of DVDs featuring her work, some of which is 
as vague as the evidence of the number of streams and views. For example,! ~ s letter states 
only that "we have sold many of DVDs featuring" the Petitioner, despite the evidence in the record 
showing thatl I is a subsidiary of a holding company founded and led by the Petitioner 
and her husband. Another letter froml I CEO ofl I a company which produces and 
distributes! I states that 12 videos featuring the Petitioner are "incredibly popular and are 
high sellers for us." More precise information was submitted in response to the Director's RFE, 
including a letter froml l CEO ot1 I who writes in a March 9, 2020 letter 
that "the last 2 years we sold more than 8500 movies" featuring the Petitioner, priced around 30 euros 
each. However, as noted in the Director's RFE, the number of sales alone are insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's DVDs have been commercially successful, and the Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that this level of sales is considered commercially successful in her industry. 
Finally, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of revenue generated through websites using a 
subscription or similar model for access to her videos and films. The information from the website I !shows links for films featuring her, as well as the number of tickets needed to view 
them and the number of times they have been viewed. She also submitted a list of monthly earnings 
from the website! lwith the Petitioner receiving between $2600 and $4600 per month 
between January 2019 and August 2020. As noted by the Director in his decision, counsel's 
calculations based upon the data from! lare not supported by the evidence. In addition, 
the data froml lis, like the information regarding sales of DVDs featuring the Petitioner, 
insufficient by itself to establish commercial success. She does not offer further arguments regarding 
this evidence on appeal. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18039910 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher and professor in the medical science field, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was em lo ed as an associate rofessor in the 
department of biological sciences at .__ _____________________ __. m 
South Korea. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging the 
work of others in his field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer reviewed 
manuscripts for professional journals such as Cell Chemical Biology and that he has served as a thesis 
and dissertation committee member at I I In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly 
articles in professional publications, including Cell and Science. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria related to published materials and 
original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v) and that he is otherwise eligible for the 
classification sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. Most of the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion relates to the Petitioner's investigations of the molecular 
mechanisms oti I in cells. 0 0 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner while workin as a researcher at 
an article titled Universit ublished 
" in Cell. The Petitioner explains that he "discovered how.__ _____ ~· .. are '-----------,,L-----, activated durin activation, which is an essential discovery to treat and better understand a 
large number o '-----~ diseases." He provided evidence that his article, for which he is credited 
as the first author, has been very highly cited by other researchers. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not give sufficient weight to detailed 
letters from experts that provided context regarding the importance of his research contributionsc=] I I o~ IUniversit ex lains that the findings the Petitioner published in Cell 
answered a long-standing question in th concerning the interaction of two 
different membrane proteins...,_ ______ ----,Jduring.__ _ __.activation. He emphasizes that "the 
answer to this question is very important and critical for many scientists . . . to understand the 
fundamental mechanism by which the I I can be activated, and to develop better and safer 
.__ _______ ~for patients." In addition, he further describes how the Petitioner's study has 
impacted research in the field . 
.,__ ______ ....,~f the University ofl I also discusses the Petitioner's research in the 
.__ _____ __.I field, crediting him with making several important discoveries that "advanced the 
boundaries" of the field and "propelled the field forward." In part, he notes that the Petitioner's 2009 
Cell article "has formed a focus for work by many groups in the past ten years to delineate thel I 
I J interaction, how it leads to I I and now naturally occurring mutations in I lcause human disease." I I further explains how the Petitioner's research has 
contributed to "uncovering fundamental mechanisms of howl I can be differentially 
regulated in different cells types," and "paving the way for development of drugs forl I I I diseases." 
The record reflects that, in addition to the very high rates of citation for his Cell article, the Petitioner 
has received international patents for technologies that build upon this foundational discovery. In 
addition, the Petitioner provided evidence of the article's influence by documenting ways in which 
other researchers have significantly relied on and built upon his research. 
When considered in its totality, the Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence to establish the nature 
and significance of his scientific contributions and has demonstrated that he satisfies the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
3 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Petitioner received his doctor of philosophy in biochemistry fr~o_m....!l======r----------' 
University in 2003. Between 2004 and 2011, he was employed byl I University as a 
postdoctoral associate, research associate, and visiting professor in the Dlpartmrt of Neurobiology. 
He has since been employed in the Department of Biological Sciences at where he currently 
serves as an associate professor and principal researcher for investigations in thel I 
field funded by the National Research Foundation of Korea, the Ministry of Science, and the Korean 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology. 
As discussed above, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the 
medical sciences field through his discoveries related to the mechanisms involved inl I I I and demonstrated that many other researchers have used this research as a foundation for 
their own important breakthroughs. The record contains evidence of the Petitioner's continued 
contributions and demonstrates that his discoveries have earned him sustained acclaim in this field. 
For example,! I Director and Head of Neuroscience Platforms atl 
!highlights the importance of the Petitioner's more recent paper, 
published in Chemistry and Biology. He explains that the Petitioner identified a compound called I I that modulates the function ofl las anl I and 
describes its importance as a potential drug candidate. The record shows that the Petitioner has 
received patents for this compound and that several pharmaceutical companies and laboratories are 
now synthesizing and selline I I for research applications worldwide. I I also 
discusses the significance of this research, emphasizing that the ~-----__. method the 
Petitioner used in his study to discover! l"broke new ground in the search for 
therapeutic ... modulators'~------------' proteins and offers important advantages over 
traditional drug discovery methods based on cell-based assays. 
In addition, lains that the Petitioner's lab a~ l"made the initial discovery of a 
............ ---------.--------,----' .. that is the first and only example of al I that 
inhibits store operate'-'L-__ ____.' rather thanl I them. He discusses the lsignifi:rce of this 
discovery and details how it has "has sparked new ideas about how alternative may shape 
~-----~that guide development of skeletal muscle and fat tissue." The expert opinions 
regarding the significance of these more recent discoveries are supported by evidence that the 
Petitioner's ongoing work at his I I laboratory continues to be influential in opening additional 
avenues for research and in efforts to develop a new class of~------~ therapies based on 
targeting thel I 
The record further reflects that Korean news agenc Newsis re orted on the Petitioner's discovery of 
th d its otential as a thera eutic in an article titled 
Another study published by the Petitioner in Science was the subject of a Korean media 
4 
article titled L-----------r----,_ ____________ _J The Petitioner is quoted 
in both articles as the head of the laboratory that published the findings, thus garnering him 
additional recognition for his work. 
Regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored a 
considerable number of articles that were published in distinguished professional journals. As 
authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the citation history or other 
evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is an important indicator of the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. In this 
case, the Petitioner has offered a report reflecting thousands of citations to his published work, as well 
as evidence demonstrating that the rate at which his articles have been cited is very high for his field, 
and that several of his articles have been particularly influential. The record also reflects that he 
continues to publish scholarly articles in his field and to accumulate citations to his work at a sustained 
rate. Overall, the number of research articles he has coauthored, and their unusually high rate of 
citation are commensurate with being among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has obtained media coverage, patents, continuous research 
funding and significant attention from other experts in his field that is reflected in the citations to his 
work, as well as frequent invitations to present his work at national and international conferences in 
the United States, South Korea, and throughout Asia. In addition, he has received and completed 
independent requests to review a substantial number of manuscripts for renowned professional 
publications. These are all positive indications of the sustained acclaim he has received for his 
contributions. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a finding that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, he has established 
that he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18356046 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has competed in the karate discipline, 
including ine=]and the United States. 1 He indicates his intention to continue competing as a karate 
athlete in the United States. His most recent entry was in 2018 as a F-1 nonimmigrant student, and he is 
pursuing a doctorate at the University ofl I where he plans to continue his karate training. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
following evidentiary criteria: membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).2 After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three 
criteria, as required. 
1 The record indicates that the! !Karate FederationLJ) is the national governing body of the spolt inD the USA 
National Karate-do Federation (USANKF) is the national governing body of the spolt in the United States, and the World 
Karate Federation is the international governing body. 
2 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to published material in certain media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's finding that he does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, we consider this issue to 
be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. The record reflects that 
the Petitioner has received numerous awards in the field of karate. For example, it establishes that in 
the I I category he received first place at the 20191 I Texas State 
Karate Championship and National Qualifier l 12019), in the I I Male Advanced I I 
Ocatego he received second place at the 20191 ~ National Karate Championships and 
Team Trials 2019), and in Mal el I Division he received second place at the 2019 
.__ __ ~ __ __._,Karate Championship ~ 12019). It further shows that the International 
Karatedo~--~Association awarded him first lace in the Junior Male I lcategory and 
second place in the Junior Male .__ _______ _,weight category, respectively, at thel I I !World Championships '----r---~ 2009). 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provides copies of awards certificates, photographs of medals, screenshots 
from the websites of the event organizers, and a translated article from I I magazine 
confirming his results in competitions. 3 For example, the article from I , I reports that 
the I [(Karate) Team in the.___ _____ ___. Championship held in[ I 
managed to be the champion of this round of games winning 17 gold medals." The article lists the 
Petitioner among the names of 14 medalists on the team, and notes that he and two others won a gold 
medal in the Youth! I division at the competition. This limited evidence of the award's media 
coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition associated with 
the awards he received at the ~--------~ World Championships. While the above 
materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of these awards, they do not 
demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 4 The record lacks other 
evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field of martial arts, as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not submitted documentation 
sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains his eligibilit)'. for this criterion through his position as a former member of 
the~------~Team ofthel 1.5 In order to satisfy 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the
1field.) I 
5 The evidence reflects that the is a member of fhe Tntematjona) ~aratedo I I Association based in I I 
Japan, which represents the style of karate practiced by_ _ I and holds world championship 
competitions every four years. 
3 
this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged 
by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for 
which classification is sought. In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence sufficient to establish that the I I requires outstanding achievements of its 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence related to his membership, asserting that 
the documentation demonstrates his eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner refers to several of 
our non-precedent decisions concerning athletes who petitioned under this classification. These 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the decisions although we will not discuss each one separately. The Petitioner emphasizes that the 
referenced non-precedent decisions demonstrate that we have previously "held that selection to and 
participation on a national team satisfies the membership requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)." 
Similarly, he urges that Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp. 2d 535 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), which involved 
a member of thd I Table Tennis Team who competed at the 2008 Olympic Games, supports his 
contention that "letters descriptive of a highly selective process to achieve membership on an I I 
national team are an acceptable form of evidence to satisfy the membership criterion." 
We acknowledge that membership on a national team may, depending on the evidence presented in 
an individual case, be sufficient to satisfy this criterion. While an athletic team is not, strictly speaking, 
an "association," it is nonetheless equally true that an athlete can earn a place on a major national or 
an Olympic team only through rigorous competition which separates the very best from the great 
majority of participants in a given sport. Therefore, an athlete's membership on an Olympic team or 
a major national team may serve to meet this criterion as such teams are limited in the number of 
members and have a rigorous selection process. 6 It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate 
that he meets every element of a given criterion. We will not assume that every "national team" is 
sufficiently exclusive and requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their fields or disciplines. Upon review of the letters submitted, we 
conclude that they do not establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion, as they contain 
inconsistent and insufficient information regarding the I I Team membership 
requirements and selection processes. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters from'-----.=========-==;--' president of th~ J
1 who states that the Petitioner was a member of the Team "at thd.....,.....,=-~~,......,.J llw orld Championship (2009 and 2013 I ~ where he ~ Gold r I and Silver medal " In an additional letter 
dated June 202o] 0 ldescribes the selection process for the~-------~ Team as 
follows: 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual. supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that election to a national all-star or Olympic team might 
serve as comparable evidence for evidence of membership in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
National team selectees are initially required to rank first or second at the provincial 
championships, which qualifies them for the c=Jnational championships. At the 
nationals (every year around mid-September), national team [selectees] ... were again 
required to finish first or second to establish eligibility for the national team selection 
competition, the premier national competition forl I 
The national team selection competition is presided by thel l Board of Directors 
and President who constitute the Selection Committee for the national team. 
This committee is comprised of the top karate officials and experts in including 
myself .... 
In assessing the final Ranking of these competitors, the selection committee evaluates 
national team prospects based upon their technical performance (stances, transitional 
movements, timing/synchronization, focus, conformance) and athletic performance 
( strength, speed, balance). Upon completion of the national team selection 
competition, the athletes with the top-2 scores overall are selected to representD on 
the world stage at competitions, which include thel !World Championships . 
.__ ___ __.~ndicates the forgoing description constitutes thel I "formal national-team selection 
process despite the unavailability of formal records and/or by-laws confirming the same." 
The Petitioner provided a farther letter froml I and letters from other I I board members 
I l,...__ _______ _,, and~I ----~I all dated June 2020, which describe 
"the national-team selection process" as follows: 
Competitions for our athletes begin at the provincial level where gold and silver medal 
winners become eligible for our national championships . . . Judges at the national 
competition evaluate competitors based upon the technical and athlete rules/by-laws of 
thel I Therefore, [the Petitioner] ... was 
mandated by our national federation to follow this highly selective evaluation rubric 
and was deemed eligible to represent thel lby the top experts of 
our sport . 
. . . [t]he information herein is a true and accurate statement of thel I national team 
selection process despite no official recordkeeping or by-laws documenting same. 
In comparing the letters froml 11 11 l and one of the letters fromD 
~-~~hey contain large portions of identical or virtually identical language consistent with a common 
source. If testimonial material lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
Petitioner to famish corroborative items. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In addition, 
the letters submitted contain inconsistences related to the membership criteria and selection process 
for thd ITeam. For example, one o~ l's letters describes the selection 
criteria as involving a three-tier process in which a candidate must achieve first or second place 
finishes in provincial-level competitions and the national competition, as well as a top-two final 
ranking in athletic and technical performance at the national team selection competition judged by the 
5 
Selection Committee jr thel 11 However, another ofl Is letters and those of□ I I, I _ and I I provide alternate criteria for national-team membership, 
describing a two-step selection process in which gold and silver medal winners at the provincial level 
become eligible for the national championship in which judges "evaluate competitors based upon the 
technical and athlete rules/by-laws ofthel I' The Petitioner 
must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where 
the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Further, none of the above letters identify the Petitioner's competitive results in the provincial, 
national, or national team selection competition which resulted in the Petitioner's inclusion on the 
national team in 2009 and 2013, or evidence establishing that his placings at those events qualify as 
"outstanding achievements" as required by the plain language of this criterion. Moreover, since the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence of when he became a member of the national team, we have no 
basis to evaluate whether he met the membership requirements stated in the above letters. 
We note that the Director's determination that the letters submitted "do not in any way describe the 
selection process for membership" on the claimed national team was incorrect, given the contents of the 
letters from] 11 = ll l andl I, quoted above, and their position 
within thel I. However, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letters in support of 
this criterion; the authors of the letters do not indicate where the organization's official membership 
requirements and review processes can be found, and there is no supporting independent 
documentation that describes these requirements. As he has not submitted verifiable and consistent 
evidence with respect to the.__ _______ __. Team membership requirements or selection 
processes, the Petitioner has not established that this claimed national team requires outstanding 
achievement of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For the above 
reasons, the Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. Here the Petitioner 
asserts eligibility through his participation as "a Judge and Referee" at the 2019 I l 
Karate Championship, the 20191 INational Karate Championships and Team Trials, and 
the 20191 I Texas State Karate Championship and National Qualifier. 
The Petitioner provided several letters in support of this criterion. A letter dated August 2019 from I I of the USANKF states that the Petitioner "has been officiating at thel I 
National Championships as well as regional tournaments in 2019" and that he is "a great addition to 
thd I referee corps." A letter from.__ _____ ~~ President of the I I 
.__ ______ confirms that the Petitioner "participated as an athlete and as a Referee at 2019 
Texas State Championship & National Qualifier held in May 2019." The Petitioner also provided a 
7 We note that the record lacks evidence establishing that the Selection Committee for thee=] national team is comprised 
of nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field, as required by this criterion. 
6 
letter of appreciation dated October 2019 from I I tournament director for the 2019 I I Karate Championship, thanking him for "an exemplary job officiating during most 
of the day." 
Further, the record contains several certificates from USANKF relating to the Petitioner's officiating 
qualifications. A certificate dated March 2019 identifies the Petitioner as a "Regional Kumite Judge­
B" and states that he has satisfied "the requirements for a license within the [USANKF]." A certificate 
dated May 2019 indicates he is a "Kumite Regional Judge A" and confirms he has fulfilled the 
"national requirements of th~I IReferee Committee," apparently during the aforementioned 
20191 I Texas State Karate Championship and National Qualifier. 
Further, two certificates dated July 2019 identify the Petitioner as a "Regional Kata Judge C" and a 
"National Kumite Referee D," respectively, and confirm his fulfillment of the "National Requirements 
of the [USANKF] Referee Committee," apparently during the aforementioned 20191 I 
National Karate Championships and Team Trials. Moreover, several photographs appear to show the 
Petitioner officiating at 20191 IN ational Karate Championships and Team Trials and posing 
with other officials at the 201 g I Karate Championship. 
The USANKF certificates establish the Petitioner's qualifications as a judge and referee. The 
statements otl b11dl I confirm that the Petitioner has been officiating at the D 
I I National Championships as well as regional tournaments in 2019. I ~ndicates 
that the Petitioner participated as a referee at 2019 Texas State Championship & National Qualifier. 
However, the Petitioner does not provide a description of his duties at any of the above competitions 
to demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed 
to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Further, the record lacks 
other evidence, such as the Petitioner's credentials for the events at which he officiated to identify his 
role and official competition rules for the events, showing that the role in which he served equates to 
participating as a "judge" of the work of others. Without farther documentation, such as evidence that 
he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner at these events, the 
evidence regarding serving as an "official" or a "referee" at martial arts events is insufficient to meet 
this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the three criteria relating to prizes or 
awards, membership, and judging. Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy an additional 
criterion related to leading or critical role on appeal, we need not reach this issue. We reserve it as he 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
7 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9978901 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film director and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed 
her subsequent appeal, concluding that she had not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
one-time achievement or documented that she meets at least three of the ten criteria.' 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. On motion, the Petitioner submits additional 
evidence, asserts that she meets four of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet three, 
and that she has established her eligibility for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
A. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 2 
1 See In Re: 4699024,(AAODec . 20,2019). 
2 As the Petitionernotes onmotion , the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l)(iii)(C) specifies the motion filing requirements , 
providing that a petitioner must submit "a statement about whetherornot thevalidityoftheunfavorable decision has been 
or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding. " The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that "[a] motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be 
dismissed." We note that the record lacks such a statement. 
B. Extraordinary Ability 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, aiis, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly aiiicles ). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our decision, we determined that the Petitioner satisfied one of the initial evidentiary criterion 
related to scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), of which she must meet three, and 
accordingly dismissed her appeal. On motion, the Petitioner reasserts her eligibility for the 
classification sought and presents new documentation related to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (viii). As we note above, a motion to reopen is based upon documentary 
evidence of new facts. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). For the following reasons, the evidence submitted 
by the Petitioner on motion does not establish her eligibility for the classification sought. Accordingly 
we will dismiss her motion to reopen. 
2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt o_flesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
for this criterion through her recei t of awards for the 
the movies The Petitioner initiall asserted eli ibili 
television program 
andl lher receipt of the medal, and a .--~~--~---.------I national award from th-,__ ______ _,for the film.__ ____ _. and its "contribution for the 
liberation of Ukraine at the time of anti-people power." On motion, she also addresses the film 
.__~-~---~~---~~-__, to assert that she meets this criterion. 
With respect to.__ ______ __,we acknowledged in our decision that the program received the 
.__ __ __.I award and concluded that the record showed this award to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in filmmaking. However, we determined that the Petitioner had not shown 
herself to be a reci ientofthis award. We noted that"screenshots froml I attribute the film 
award to 'while an initial letter from.__ ______ _, director o~ I 
'i=========....--~-- stated, 'c=J received this prestigious national award for the project 
2006 .... "' We therefore concluded that "the record indicates that an entity, as 
.__ __ d-to-tl-1e-P-et-it_,ioner, received the award," and identified this entity as eithd lor 
n motion, the Petitioner provides no additional evidence resolving the issue of whether=] 
or~received the award. A petitioner must resolve inconsistencies of record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Mattera_/ Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 
(BIA 1988). Without additional evidence resolving this inconsistency she has not overcome our 
concerns on motion. 
Instead, on motion she reasserts that she received the I I award and submits unsourced 
photographs. The first photograph is of the award only and does not contain a caption. The second 
hoto a h is of the Petitioner holdin this award and bears the ca tion, 
.__ ____ __.' and states that [The Petitioner] was the director of the TV version of this program on 
the TV channel 1 ~ "4 HoweverJ !asserts in his supplemental letter that"[ o ]wning 
[sic] to [the Petitioner]'s critical role" in this productionOand [the Petitioner] were awarded the I I Award I t' As we noted in our original decision, the screen shot from the 
website of the I t award credits onl~ las an award recipient. The documentation 
submitted on motion is therefore inconsistent with the evidence initially presented by the Petitioner to 
establish that she meets this criterion. As we note above, the Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies 
in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
at 591-92. Withoutevidenceresolvingwhethershe,I lc=J or both she and0received 
this award, the Petitioner has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
In our decision, we found that the Petitioner had not established that the films D andl I received awards; accordingly we could not determ.__i_n_e_i_f_s_h_e_a_l_s_o_w_a_s_a_, 
recipient of these films' awards. On motion, the Petitioner offered new evidence demonstrating that I leceived the....._ ______ __,at the 2015~------~Film Festival 
3 This a ward is referred to as ,j I' '.......__.......-;,:,:L~ 
4 We note that the evidence on motion indicates that ......,,.====-~--', in""'the record. 
.__ ___ _.t' is the TV channel on which this program 
appeared. 
3 
.....,_----;::::='!2.l,_:th::.::a:..:t~I ===::!r:..::e.:..ce:..:i:...:..v.:..ed:::.t.::h:.:e1- ___ .J:.....::;Best Film Award at thJ l Festival of Film, and 
tha received the International Fih~ I award 
for1=[=======~==r-a-t-th-e-.------r- __ T_h_e_P_e~titioner then reasserts that she received the award for the 
fih-J !because she was its creative roducer that she received the award fore=] as 
its creative producer, and the award fo as its executive 
producer "(together with~----~---- " 
However, the evidence submitted on motion does not support the Petitioner's contention that she 
served as a producer of these films. Re ardin I O I on motion, the Petitioner provides a 
letter of recommendation from a film director, the film's IMDb entry, and a printout 
from Festival Scope about the film. ~-.,.....,....----,-=-- states that the Petitioner was the creative producer 
forl I However, she is not identified as such either in the film's IMDb entry or on its 
entry on Festival Scope. Elsewhere in the record, a photocopy of the film's poster identifies the 
producer only asl I and does not list the Petitioner as a co-producer. With respect to I I.the Petitioner also provides a document from Festival Scope and its IMDb entry. The former 
attributes I k production to I I and I I and the latter provides no 
information on the film's producers and makes no reference to the Petitioner. For! l the 
Petitioner submits printouts from the film's distribution company and announcements of its film 
screenings at thtj IFilm Festival and thel IFilm Festival. These 
documents do not identify the Petitioner as affiliated with the film; all three identify the film's director 
by name, and no one else. By the preponderance of the evidence, the documentation submitted on 
motion does not support the Petitioner's assertion that she produced these films, and by extension, her 
claim that she satisfies this criterion. 
In our deci~iou we also acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of an award from thel I 
for the filrni : I and the resulting "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine at the time of 
anti-people power," but found that she had not established that it was nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field, as required at 8 C.F.R. §. 204.5(h)(3){i). On motion, the 
Petitioner resubmits a co~v of this award, the award's translation, a letter fron{ I Ph.D., 
program head of thel __ I University School of Film and Photography, and the 
aforementioned letter fro I 
.___ _ ____.I speculates that this award "may well be for her efforts to promote a greater understanding of 
her country through film," and that it was the quality of her films that "promoted a freedom message." 
Apart from this statement, he does not explain how an award granted for contributing to Ukraine's 
liberation equates to an award given for excellence in film direction. Further,! I does not discuss 
whether the award was nationally or internationally recognized for such excellence. In his letterO I I does assert that the award was given to the Petitioner in "national recognition" of the film, 
but the record lacks evidence, such as media reports or other relevant materials, demonstrating this 
national recognition or showing how this demonstrates the significance of the award in the field of 
filmmaking. 5 For these reasons, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion does not establish 
5 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting relevant considerations in determining if the 
a ward or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international significance in the field.) 
4 
by the preponderance of the evidence that this award is nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in her field. Accordingly it is not sufficient to demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
We also determined in our decision that the Petitioner's receipt of an award from th~._ ______ _. 
did not satisfy this criterion. On motion, she contests our finding, 
~p_ro_v_i_d-in_g_a_p_h-ot_o_gr-ap_h_o_f-th_e_a_w__.ard, its translation, and the aforementioned letter froml I The 
photograph includes an unsourced caption stating "[i]n May of 2006, [the Petitioner] shot 
I } after which she received ... the I I medal for 
high quality footage." The Petition;r does not provide evidence or documentation from ihec=lO 
officials, or others, corroborating this statement. 
~ __ _.I opines that "[t]he innovations she brought to the program were so significant that theD 
felt it was worthy of a special award" and concludes "rf1his unrual honor SU~ that it was the high 
quality of her filmmaking that led to this award." Here states that the L_J awarded this medal 
because the institution felt the Petitioner's innovations were significant but does not explain how the c::J reached this conclusion. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. 
The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The Petitioner does 
not provide evidence corroboratina ~ assertion that thec=]awards the medal for excellence 
in filmmaking. Fmiher, the record lacks evidence demonstrating that the medal is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field, such as documentation establishing its significance of the award 
in that field. 6 Absent this evidence, the Petitioner does not demonstrate on motion that her receipt of 
this award satisfies this criterion. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated on motion that she meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed as her ori inal contribution a used to 
create the visual effect ~------------------------------' which she alleged was copied in other productions. We concluded that the record did not establish 
that she made an original contribution and that it was of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 7 
On motion, the Petitioner reasserts her claim that her film making technique meets this criterion, 
submitting evidence related to her work on a DVD of a concert performed by the Ukrainian musical 
group 1 t Additionally, she asserts that a course on animation-directing that she taught 
at the! I, and a book she authored) I I I constitute original contributions of major 
significance in her field. 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
7 Id. (providing an example that although work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficientto establish that the w01k 
is of major significance). 
5 
Regarding the I I concert DVD, the Petitioner provides screenshots of the DVD's 
credits, establishing her involvement in its production and a letter of recommendation froml I I l a Russian songwriter and musician. I lindicates that he worked with the Petitioner 
on other projects, but not with her directly on the 1 I production. However, he claims 
that the "unique technical solution" employed by the Petitioner during this project are original artistic 
contributions of major significance as "after the released [sic] of the DVD-disk, this technical solution 
was used not only by I I' but also by several other bands and directors. I I 
also asserts that "[the Petitioner]'s previous achievements as a director" constitute an original 
contribution of major significance in the field of filmmaking. Letters that specifically articulate how 
the noncitizen' s contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent w01k 
add value. Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may fonn the basis for meeting this criterion. 8c=] I ts correspondence does not contain specific examples of how other bands and directors have 
used her work, or how her previous achievements as a director have remarkably impacted the field of 
film direction. Further, Petitioner does not provide evidence corroboratin~ • l's assertions, 
such as letters from television or movie directors or other relevant materials. In the absence of such 
documentation, his letter is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner also claims that the course on animation direction that she developed and 
tau~t atl I constitutes an original contribution of major significance. She provides a statement 
fro I and a letter of recommendation from] I' a Russian director and producer, in 
support of her argument. The proffered statement frod~--~ confirms that from December 2014 
until July 2015, the Petitioner authored and taught this course "on the basis of her vast personal 
experience as a practitioner-animator." I I notes that course's "uniqueness ... lies in the fact 
that only after [the Petitioner] agreed to teach the course ... was I I able to recruit a group of 
film and television directors" to attend the course. 9 N eitherl I's correspondence nor the I I document contain specific examples, and the record lacks other evidence, demonstrating how 
her development and instruction of the course has remarkably impacted the field of film direction and 
production in a manner indicative of major significance. Accordingly, the Petitioner's evidence is 
insufficient to show that this course satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner newlr asserts on motion that her boo 
~-------~}"can be considered as a scientific contribution in the field of endeavor." She 
resubmits an article titled~----------------------~----~ I , ~ photocopies of the book's front and back covers and binding, and the first page of its first 
chapter, along with its translation. 10 She submits a solicited letter of recommendation frorrJ 
I I a ioumalist and nroducer. I ~rst describes the book as examinin2:I 
I 
8 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
~ttps-//www 11scis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9ls statement is inconsistent with thel I document, which identifies class attendees as "students of the ~----------~' A petitionermustresolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointina to urberelthe truth lies. Ho, 19 T&N Dec. at 591-92. Here the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
resolvingwhethd~. --~~tudentsorfilmandtelevisiondirectorsattendedhercourse. 
10 We previously reviewed this evidence and determined it established that she met the scholarly articles crite1ion but did 
not address it in the context of original contlibutions. 
6 
~-----~-----____,.,.....' I l"is positive that [the Petitioner J's analysis facilitates 
creative development of post-Soviet audience via better understanding of its cultural heritage" and 
concludes that this book "is paramount for further research in the field of filmmaking." As a result of 
this analysisj I asserts that the Petitioner's book "clearly constitutes an original contribution 
of major significance to the field of filmmaking" (emphasis in original). However, as we note 
above, letters that specifically articulate how the non citizen's contributions are of major significance 
to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.11 
I I does not provide specific examples demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has facilitated 
the development of its target audience or showing its impact on research in the field of filmmaking, 
and the record lacks evidence corroborating his claims. Without additional evidence demonstrating 
that this book has widely impacted or received widespread recognition in the field of film direction 
and production in a manner reflecting major significance, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion through her authorship of this text. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In our dismissal, we found the Petitioner did not establish her leading role forD and she does not 
contest this on motion. We also found that the Petitioner had not established that she served in a 
critical role for this entity. On motion, she reasserts that she has nerformed in a critical role and 
submits the aforementioned statements froml I andl I Both statements discuss 
the Petitioner's production of I I' and~---------~ for 
Euromedia, one o-c==Js customers. I I explains that "her critical role was paramount 
toc=J[sic] success and reputation and to Ukraine" as it "helped thousands of students ... choose the 
best educational institution for their needs." He continues, "[c]lear evidence of [the Petitioner J's 
critical role in our company is her leadership in our most complex a [sic] prestigious projects, all of 
which resulted in the highest ratings of our broadcasts." (emphasis in original.) HoweverD 
I I does not offer specific examples showing how the Petitioner's work fore=] directly 
resulted in these increased ratings. Fmiher, the Petitioner does not submit corroborative evidence of 
his claims, such as ratings for these programs, or other appropriate documentation . 
.__ ___ _.I similarly asserts that the Petitioner served in a critical role for~as, when the Petitioner 
started "international projects '------------~ and.__ __________ ____. the 
ratings of the TV channels where they were broadcasted in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan went through 
the roof!" Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the noncitizen's 
leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specificall addresses how the noncitizen's role for the organization or establishment 
was leading or critical. 12 L---~_.--,tter does not indicate how he arrived at his personal knowledge 
of the Petitioner's critical role for or contain detailed information establishing that her direction 
of these programs resulted in increased television ratings. Moreover, the record does not establish that I lwas employed byOor had employed the Petitioner. 13 His letter therefore is not sufficient 
11 See 6 USCIS PolicyManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
12 Id. 
13 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l ); see also 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -
7 
to demonstrate that the Petitioner performed in a critical role fore=] Additionally, the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence establishing c=]s distinguished reputation. She therefore has not 
demonstrated that her role witiQ satisfies this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner newly asserts that she served in a critical role fo~ las she develo~ 
the previously discussed course a~ referencing both the previously discussed letter frornL_J I I, and the document fromc===J'14 In his letter) !explains that the Petitioner's 
course was critical tol las it "allowed I I to expand the student base," but does not 
provide specific examples showing how it did so. As we note above, letters from individuals with 
personal knowledge of the significance of the noncitizen's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative infonnation that specifically addresses how 
the non citizen's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 15 Here I I 
does not indicate how he has personal knowledge of the Petitioner's rol~at Further, his 
letter lacks detailed information demonstrating how her role was critical to d the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence con-oboratinghis assertion that her course increase 's student base. 
Therefore I Is letter is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
In addition, the record lacks evidence establishin~ [' s distinguished reputation.16 Accordingly, 
this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner served in a critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner does not submit documentary evidence sufficient to 
overcome our original finding that she did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Therefore, she has not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrated 
eligibility for this classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
First Step ofReviewingEvidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting that evidence 
of experience "shall" consistofletters from employers.) 
14 As discussed above, the record is sufficient to establish that thePetitionertaught this course. 
15 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting that evidence of experience "shall" consist of 
letters from employers.) 
16 Id., (noting that theorganizationorestablishmentmust be recognized as having a distingnished reputation.) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16494565 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a clinical chemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements 
for this classification . We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal of that decision, and dismissed a 
subsequent combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The matter is again before us on a 
second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. As such, the issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); specifically, those relating to her authorship of scholarly articles, and her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she 
also met two additional criteria relating to her membership in associations requiring outstanding 
achievements of their members, and her original contributions of major significance to her field. In 
dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director that she did not meet those two additional criteria. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which included new evidence 
in support of both criteria. In dismissing the Petitioner's combined motion, we acknowledged and 
addressed her newly submitted evidence, and articulated why such evidence and her accompanying 
assertions were insufficient to warrant reopening or reconsideration. 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In dismissing the prior motion, we noted that although the Petitioner asserted that her education and 
post-doctoral training qualify as outstanding achievements, she did not articulate how those facts 
showed that obtaining her degree and her post-doctoral training constituted outstanding achievements 
for purposes of meeting the membership criterion. We noted that while the doctoral ro ram at I I may be the only one accredited by .---------=-_._ _______ _ 
the fact that '----------------------' ....... --------------~ has chosen to attain an accreditation for its program tailored to.__ _____ ___. scientists does not 
prove that those who complete such a program have made an outstanding achievement. Similarly, 
although she asserted that the Rost-doctoral training she completed at thd.__ _________ ____. 
an~,__ ________ _.J is 1 of 35 accredited byl I we determined that she had not 
shown that the completion of that training is an achievement that stands out from those of her peers, 
despite the fact that such training may better qualify her to pursue a career as a clinical chemist than 
those who have not yet completed their education and training. 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates her claim that her Ph.D. in clinical and bioanalytical chemistry 
and her post-doctoral training in the same field qualif as outstandin achievements. She states that 
her comQletion of her post-doctoral training at the and 
I lsatisfies this criterion, again noting that the program a'-----------~ and.___~ I I is only one of35 accredited b~ I She farther points out that "this position 
is limited to one per year per hospital" and concludes that "at any time in a year, there will be 35 Post 
Doctorates under training." Additionally, she asserts that only two of the 35 post-doctoral training 
programs are I t' 
She also rovides an excerpt from the U.S. News website discussin~---------~noting 
tha s one of onl 281 in the United States, and that it is ranked fourth 
on the ' list." he relies on this excerpt to demonstrate that 
distinguished reputation of.__ _________ ~ and its programs, and concludes by asserting 
that "my peer group constitutes a total of 35 post doctoral fellows. Of which, I am one of two who is 
highly specialized id I clinical chemistry." 
While we note the Petitioner's repeated assertion that she is one of 35 who received post-doctoral 
training in clinical chemistry, we refer to our previous determination that while such training may 
better qualify her to pursue a career as a clinical chemist than those who have not yet completed their 
education and training, she has not shown that the completion of that training is an achievement that 
stands out from those of her peers. Although she newly asserts on motion that only two of the 35 
ro rams offer training, and that she is one of two individuals who received 
'-------~ post-doctoral training in clinical chemistry, she cannot establish this claimed fact 
3 
with unsupported testimonial evidence alone. 1 Even if established, this fact alone is insufficient to 
demonstrate an outstanding achievement as contemplated by the membership criterion, as the 
Petitioner readily asserts that such positions are available annually to post-doctoral researchers in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also provides an article titled I r published by the American Association of Clinical Chemistry (AACC), which 
discusses the importance of I I clinical chemistry and the distinction between treatment of I µiseases and disorders from those ofl I She again reiterates her claim that she is an 
expert in I plinical chemistry, and relies on this article to demonstrate that her field is 
concentrated and she is one of a small percentage of individuals qualified to perform services in the 
field. This article, however, only provides a general overview of this field and does not identify the 
Petitioner by name or support her assertion that she is an expert in the field ofl !clinical 
chemistry. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's completion of a specialized course of study in the field of 
clinical chemistry, this article merely provides a general overview of the field of1 I health 
through laboratory medicine. The Petitioner once again appears to rely upon the small number of 
clinical chemists who have graduated from al I program, and the claimed small 
number of post-doctoral research programs available in the narrower field ofl I clinical 
chemistry. However, as discussed in our previous decision, the Petitioner has not shown how 
obtaining her degree and completion her post-doctoral training is an outstanding achievement as 
contemplated by this criterion. 
While we acknowledge the highlights of~ I outlined in the website excerpt 
from U.S. News, as well as the overview o I provided in 
the AACC article, we do not agree that this new evidence establishes that she has met the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires membership in associations in 
the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner previously maintains throughout the record that she specializes 
in the field o~, I clinical chemistry, it is unclear why this evidence was not previously submitted 
or whether it was unavailable for any reason. The Petitioner provides no explanation for not previously 
offering this evidence. 
For the reasons stated above, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion, nor has she shown that our previous decision was based upon an 
incorrect application of law or policy. 
1 The Petitioner states in her motion that andl l an~ I I are the only two hospitals in the United States that offer post-doctoral training that is exclusive! !specific. 
We note however, that the record lacks corroborating documentation of this claim, such as statistics or documentation 
frorrl I or from the hospitals themselves regarding the nature of their post-doctoral training programs. The record 
therefore does not support the Petitioner's assertion. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Regarding her claim that she also met the original contributions criterion, the Petitioner previously 
submitted evidence which she asserted showed how her research helped to form guidelines relating to 
.__ ______ _. that were adopted at thel I and other health care organizations. 
Specifically, the Petitioner resubmitted a copy of a paper she authored regarding .__ ______ _. 
which was published in Annals of Clinical & Laboratory Science, as well as two papers which make 
reference to that a er. She relied on one of these papers, titled '---"""T""--------.,,------.::,--~ 
'and ublished in Clinical Biochemistry in 2019, noting '-------------------r-~-~-----, that the paper's citation of her work o ~-------' demonstrates that her work has been 
implemented at "many hospitals." In dismissing her motion, we determined that this evidence did not 
overcome our previous finding that the extent of the Petitioner's contribution had not been established, 
as the paper indicated that hers was one of several papers which confirmed the ~-------' issue. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits copies of rapers she authored and claims that they serve as evidence 
of her original contributions in the field ofl !clinical chemistry. Preliminarily, we note that 
while the Petitioner lists six papers as being appended to the motion, only four of the six identified 
papers are actually included with her motion submission. 2 In addition, the Petitioner onl discusses 
one of the submitted documents; specifically, a case report titled'--------.--------,, I I' published by the AACC. Although she indicates on motion that I I' and constitutes "an original contribution and original w~o_r_k-,'-' -sh_e_d_o-es-n~ot 
provide any farther explanation regarding this claim. Moreover, it appears she is one of four authors 
of this paper; therefore, the extent of her contributions in comparison to the other authors, absent 
additional evidence, cannot be determined. 
The remaining three papers submitted on motion also indicate that she is one of multiple authors for 
each publication. There is no farther discussion or analysis regarding the subjects of these articles or 
the manner in which they constitute original contributions. These papers, as well as the AACC case 
study discussed above, do not satisfy the plain language of this criterion, which requires the Petitioner 
to demonstrate not only that her contributions are original, but also of major significance in the field. 
Although this evidence shows that the Petitioner's work contributed to the knowledge on the subject 
o~ !clinical chemistry, there is no evidence demonstrating that the field has changed as a result 
of these papers, or that the findings and/or research discussed therein is being implemented or 
reproduced within the field. While the Petitioner's authorship of these papers is notable, she has not 
shown how her original scientific contributions have been of major influence in the field, by providing, 
for example, evidence that her contributions have been widely implemented, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion, nor 
has she shown that our previous decision was based upon an incorrect application oflaw or policy. 
2 The motion does not contain a copy o"'-'f'---------------------------~ 
or '------------~ ~------------------~ 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not presented new facts sufficient to overcome our 
prior determination. While the evidence submitted on motion is new, it does not overcome our 
previous finding that the Petitioner did not meet the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
or the original contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), either viewed 
alone or in the context of the evidence previously submitted. 
For these reasons, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Although the Petitioner indicates that she is concurrently filing a 
motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's general request that we reconsider our prior decision does not 
specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 
Here, the Petitioner describes the new evidence she submits on motion under the evidentiary criteria 
relating to memberships and original contributions. However, the Petitioner does not argue or point 
to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in our prior decision, as required for a motion to 
reconsider. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of law or 
pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our 
decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider 
is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, our decision thoroughly analyzed and 
explained why every piece of evidence and argument addressed in the motion did not meet the 
regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in either misapplying 
law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, she does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. As 
such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and must therefore be 
dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
Accordingly, the combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19217950 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a creative technologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification 
through evidence of either a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time his pet1t10n was filed, the Petitioner was employed byl las a creative 
technologist. He earned a master of science degree in media arts and technology from the University 
of~------------~ in 2011, and has since worked to create interactive and 
experiential multimedia displays for tradeshows, tourist attractions and museums. He states that he 
intends to continue in this field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his leading or critical role for distinguished establishments 
and the display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Upon review, we agree 
that he meets these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to four additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all of the evidence 
in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, and has therefore not established that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a Petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association 
that is in their field, and that that association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership. In addition, the Petitioner must show that the quality of those achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
2 
The record shows that the Petitioner is a professional member of the Society for Experiential Graphic 
Design (SEGD). However, it does not include evidence which provides any level of specificity 
regarding SEGD' s membership requirements, or information regarding any judging process for 
membership applicants. Pages submitted from the association's website simply state that design 
memberships "are for people whose primary occupation or course of study is experiential graphic 
design or related fields ... " This material then lists the different types of membership and the benefits 
associated with each, a list of members, and a brief history of SEGD. 
In addition, in responding to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
SEGD's.__ _______________ ___. She provides background information on the 
association which is similar to that included on its website, and lists what she states are well-known 
SEGD members. But she does not provide further information regarding the requirements for SEGD 
membership at the Petitioner's or any level, nor does she shed light upon the membership application 
judging process. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points out that the Director failed to acknowledge the submission oO 
I Is letter. However, since that letter serves only to verify evidence that was already in the 
record, we find the Director's omission to be harmless. He also asserts that the totality of the evidence 
submitted under this criterion is sufficient to meet the preponderance of the evidence standard. But 
the Petitioner does not refer to evidence of any specific SEGD membership requirements or 
application review process, instead making conclusory statements and repeating the regulatory 
language on several occasions. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), afj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, 
*5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, l 997). 
In addition, in his appeal brief the Petitioner focuses on evidence of the successful completion of 
projects to which he contributed, and asserts that since this work is considered to be outstanding, as 
evidenced by reference letters, media reports and other evidence in the record, it served as the basis 
for his membership in SEGD and he therefore meets this criterion. But this argument fails, as the 
record lacks any evidence that shows that his role in those projects was considered when he submitted 
his application for membership, let alone who would have considered them. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does 
not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
There are several elements which must be satisfied for evidence to meet the requirements of this 
criterion. Specifically, a petitioner must show that the material has been published, that the publication 
is a professional or major trade medium or other major medium, that the material is about the 
petitioner, and that it relates to their work in the field for which classification is sought. Here, the 
Petitioner submitted materials published on several websites, some of which, like those published on 
3 
cnbc.com and nrimes.com, are clearly major media and relate to his work in the field. These articles 
discussl projects to which other evidence verifies the Petitioner contributed. However, as 
noted by the Director in his decision, they are not about the Petitioner but about the projects. They do 
not discuss the Petitioner's contribution to the projects, provide information about him and his work, 
or even mention him by name. Materials that do not pertain to a petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
The record also includes the Petitioner's profile pages on the SEGD website and on the website of 
Communication Arts (commarts.com). Regarding the SEGD profile, we note that the association 
promotes member profile pages as a significant membership benefit on its website, allowing members 
to network with each other. In his decision, the Director described this evidence as "self­
manufactured" and thus lacking in evidentiary weight. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that this 
conclusion runs counter to a plain language interpretation of the criterion, and that the profile otherwise 
meets all elements as described above. However, we note that the criterion also states that the evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material. Because none of this information is present in 
this material, it does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The material published on commarts.com consists of the Petitioner's profile, which is also missing a 
date of publication and author, and consists of photographs showing some of his work. Also included 
were a series of photographs of an installation at th ~-----------~ inl I which 
also lists the Petitioner as a contributor among others, and a feature article about one of his former 
employers.I I that does not mention him. As with the SEGD profile, the commarts.com 
profile lacks essential information to qualify under this criterion. Further, the other materials are not 
about the Petitioner: the material on the I I installation does not provide information about the 
Petitioner other than his name and job title, and the article aboutl I is about the history and 
founders of that company. As such, none of this material meets all of the required elements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In his initial submission, the Petitioner did not specifically claim to meet this criterion. Instead, he 
submitted two reference letters relating to his academic career and referred to these as comparable 
evidence. These letters, from two of the faculty members who served on his master's thesis committee 
at I I describe his thesis and other work which he completed as a graduate student. When 
responding to the Director's RFE, although the Petitioner continued to assert that this evidence should 
be accepted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), he also stated that the evidence serves to show his original 
contributions of major significance to his field. We further note that on appeal, he briefly refers to 
4 
additional reference letters as establishing his qualification under this criterion, although he does not 
specifically identify the contributions to his field shown by those letters. 1 
,..;;..T=h"""e"""'l"""e=tt"""erc.;;s;.......;;.;;fr~o=m=-....---------~~ and.__ _______ ____. of .... l __ _.ls .... l _____ ___. '--------~ program, describe the Petitioner's work during his graduate studies. They explain 
that for his thesis, he focused on and that this work 
resulted in system that was used in the program's immersive facility. 
lists two conference papers, a doctoral dissertation and a master's thesis that cite to 
._t_h_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r-'s____.thesis, which he states "confirms its pioneering importance." In her le~terl I I I describes other projects that the Petitioner completed during his time atl I all of 
which were included in the annual.__ ________ ___,' However, as noted in the Director's 
decision, the assertions by these experts that these were contributions of major significance to the 
Petitioner's field are not supported by documentary evidence. The record does not include copies of 
the citing articles, or other evidence which would otherwise indicate the extent and nature of the 
influence of the Petitioner's work on the authors or on the overall field . .__ ________ ___,' s 
conclusion that his work has "contributed significantly to the landscape of immersive and generative 
art as well as.__ __________ ~" simply repeats the regulatory language and provides no 
measure of the significance of the Petitioner's contributions as a graduate student, particularly to the 
broader field beyon~ I 
On appeal, the Petitioner expands his claim to this criterion to the additional reference letters submitted 
with his petition, and in particular those froml l CEO ofl I andl I 
CEO ofl I both former employers of the Petitioner.2 These letters describe many projects 
that the Petitioner contributed to during his employment with these companies, and refer to media 
coverage of the projects which is included in the record. I l's letter concludes that the 
Petitioner's work "has contributed significantly to th~ I experiences, directly 
impacting their cultural outreach." While this is undoubtedly true, his impact on these individual 
projects does not show that his work has impacted or influenced the overall field in any way. Although 
I I also writes about the Petitioner's contribution to the company's open source software 
toolkits, which he states are widely used by others in the field of creative technology to create user 
interfaces, the record does include evidence to support this statement or show the impact of these 
toolkits on the broader field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner's work on immersive projects for the and other 
~--___,lwas described in a letter frornl I, Director o-"L---....---------,__ _ ___. 
She indicates that she worked directly with him on digital installations for the.__ ____ ~ in the 
I, and also that she is familiar with his work on an installation 
.__a_t-th-e-rl--------.-1-S_h_e_a_ls_o_r_e__,fers to the Petitioner's "significant contributions to thd I 
public space, and Creative Technology field," but does not expand upon what these are beyond the 
completion of these projects. 
1 Because the Petitioner has submitted evidence which he asserts suppo1is his claim to the cntenon at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), he cannot demonstrate that this criterion does not apply to his occupation as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). We will therefore not further address his claim to have submitted comparable evidence. 
2 All of the reference letters submitted have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
Other letters also describe the Petitioner's contributions to immersive projects installed at several 
venues, and praise his work and the impact it had on these projects. However, although they confirm 
that he has played an important role in several creative technology projects which have been well 
received, they do not establish that his influence has reached beyond those individual projects to affect 
the way others in his field do their work, or has otherwise made original contributions of major 
significance. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salwy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted several forms of information regarding his salary, including Forms W-2 for 
the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. These show that in those years, he earned more than $117,000, 
$121,000 and $125,000, respectively. To show that his salary was high in relation to others in his 
field, he submitted the May 2019 edition of the Occupational Outlook Handbook's (OOH) section 
about graphic designers, which shows that in thel I metropolitan area where he lives and 
works, the annual mean salary is $68,690. 
In responding to the Director's RFE, and specifically his statement that the record did not include 
evidence to show that his salary was high in relation to other creative technologists, the Petitioner 
asserted that no statistics were available for that specific occupation "on the BLS website," and that 
the occupation of graphic designer "most mirrors the responsibilities and aspects of [the Beneficiary's] 
position, work in the field, and achievements as a "Creative Technologist."" On appeal, the Petitioner 
repeats these arguments, and reminds the AAO that he must only establish that he has met the 
requirements for this criterion by a preponderance of the evidence. Upon review, we agree with the 
Director that he has not done so. 
We first note that the fact that salary data does not exist for the specific occupation of creative 
technologist on the websites where the Bureau of Labor Statistics salary data is posted does not relieve 
the Petitioner of his burden to submit evidence in support of his assertions. The Director's RFE 
suggested several types of evidence that could be submitted by the Petitioner to show the relative 
salaries of others in his field, including media reports, lists or reports from professional organizations 
(such as SEGD), and other compensation surveys. The Petitioner chose not to submit such evidence 
despite the Director's specific request, and does not assert that this evidence also does not exist for the 
occupation of creative technologist. 
In addition, the Petitioner provides no support other than his own assertion for his position that the 
salary statistics for the position of graphic designer serve as an appropriate basis to compare his salary 
to that of others in his field. This is particularly striking because at the bottom of the first page of the 
OOH section on graphic designers it is stated that the occupational code for that occupation, 27-1024, 
excludes "Web and Digital Interface Designers." In addition, evidence in the record repeatedly refers 
to the Petitioner's previous job titles as "developer" and "senior developer" and describe his use of 
various software tools, thereby suggesting more appropriate occupational codes for which BLS data 
is readily available. Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that his salary is 
high in relation to others in his field, and does not meet this criterion. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17887008 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cardiovascular diseases fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filin the Petitioner indicated he was workin as a cardiovascular diseases fellow at the 
University o . The Petitioner's curriculum 
vitae reflects that he also worked for .__ _____________ __, as an internal medicine 
resident between 2013 and 2016. In 2012, he received his bachelor of medicine and bajhelor of 
surgery degree from the I I Memorial Hospital and I _Medical 
College i~ I India. The Petitioner states that he is a specialist in cardiovascular disease and 
electrophysiology. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner has peer 
reviewed a manuscript for the Journal of General Internal Medicine. In addition, he authored 
scholarly articles in professional publications including Annals of Hepatology, Journal of Vector 
Borne Diseases, and Indian Heart Journal. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that he does not meet two 
additional criteria, related to original contributions in the field and leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, which we will discuss below. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to membership in associations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
finding that he does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, we consider this issue to be 
abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *L *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
the record, we conclude that the record does not support a determination that the Petitioner satisfies 
the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner claims that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field, as evidenced by his published research, citation record, letters from experts 
in the field, participation in professional conferences and symposia, and other evidence. On appeal, 
he emphasizes that the testimonial letters outline "the practical importance to the field of [his] past 
and ongoing research as well as his extraordinary clinical abilities." 3 
Here, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the letters are lacking detail explaining how 
his research findings have already been widely accepted and implemented in the field to the extent 
that they have been regarded as contributions of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, and indicate their publication in journals and presentation at 
conferences. 
For example.__ _______ __.Professor of Medicine, Cardiolo,t=g:2:Y.....:D~iv:..:i~s1~· o:'.=n'.:..:a~t::.=::::::::::;--------' I I describes the Petitioner's novel finding of a role played byl f tissue in the 
pathophysiology o~ I and his development of a new method called the l I I I to help with risk stratification for patients with the disorder. 
He indicates that the Petitioner's research paper about this work was one of only six papers discussing 
clinical conditions that modify the response to.__ ________ __. accepted for oral presentation 
at the American Heart Association Annual Scientific Sessions in 201 7, but he does not explain how 
the Petitioner's research findings went on to significantly impact or influence the field. As previously 
discussed, although funded and published work may be "original," the publication or presentation of 
one's work alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 
----------.1 Director of Interventional Echocardiography and Professor of Medicine at ~------_ ...... fdescribes the Petitioner's research findings as "extreme! im ortant" because 
they "provide an accurate means to measure the risk of recurrencl-'-'-'-'-'---~~---------' 
as well as "an objective measure to decide whether to perform.__ ___ __. at all." She does not 
explain, however, how his work in that area or hisl I method has been particularly influential 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
3 Although we focus on those letters highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal and do not discuss every letter submitted, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
or impactful in the field or explain how it has been applied by others, so as to constitute a contribution 
of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Professor of Medicine at states that 
~th_e_P_e-ti-ti_o_n-er_'_s_r_e_s-ea_r_c_h~proj ect inc=] India that screens in real-time for using I I technology has "demonstrated the reliability of .__ _________ ___.that could 
provide a distinct national benefit forl lof the United States .... " He describes the Petitioner 
as "one of the best residents we have trained" and asserts that this research project, "as well as others, 
have had a tremendous impact in international scientific and medical communities." However, he 
does not explain in detail how the Petitioner's work has been widely accepted or implemented in the 
field to support his conclusion that his work has "had tremendous impact in international scientific 
and medical communities," and he does not describe "others" of the Petitioner's research studies or 
speak to their originality or impact in the field. 
,..__ ________ .._Aa..=s=s1=· s"""tant Professor in Medicine, Cardiovascular Division atl.__ _____ __, 
'--------------~d~e=s=cr=i=b=es~an=-',additional research study performed b the Petitioner that 
demonstrated that.__ ________ __. was not a more accurate measure o '------.---- ...... 
in certain patients with acute cardiac arrest when compared with measurements taken by.___~ I I He speaks to the potential or future benefit of the Petitioner's work, stating that his 
research both in this area and in assessing the risk of recurrence ofi I 
"have produced important results that will aid physicians in the diagnosis of various heart ailments 
and will likely reduce the number of unnecessary invasive surgeries to prevent these various cardiac 
diseases," but his assertions do not demonstrate his research has already had an impact or influence 
commensurate with "major significance." 
Some of the testimonials detail the benefits patients received from the Petitioner's clinical skills in 
individual cases. For example, of the relates details 
of the Petitioner's performance of a bedsid L...,.,.....--r ___ .....__.. ......... 1iagnosis of a~-,-----,-,-----~ 
heart attack in a young patient requiring immediat '------~ He claims that the Petitioner saved 
the patient's life through his "accurate diagnosis and correct decision regarding the patient's 
treatment." I I chief of cardiovascular medicine a~ ,I 
provides that the Petitioner diagnosed and treated a rare form o in an elderly patient 
who presented with an.__ __________ ~ ______ __,and asserts that due to his 
"superior diagnostic ability" the patient avoided the cost and risk of surgical implantation of a 
permanent pacemaker. In addition, and em hasize the im ortance of the 
Petitioner's clinical experience in treating and employing 
advanced diagnostic techniques and interventional procedures such as ~---~~____,,..., cardiac 
catheterization, and insertion of transvenous pacemakers. Regardless of the field of endeavor, the plain 
language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an impact 
beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013). 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
4 
criterion.4 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att)· Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The Petitioner asserts that the above-referenced 
statements and those of others who have worked with him show that his "clinical abilities are far 
superior to others in the field." Here, the letters do not, for example, indicate that therapeutic 
treatments were being developed as a result of the Petitioner's research, that his research has already 
influenced medical practices, that his clinical or research work has already had a widespread impact, 
or that it substantially influenced the nature or direction of research being conducted in his area of 
specialty, and the record does not contain supporting evidence demonstrating this influence. The 
record contains ample evidence regarding the prevalence and seriousness of cardiac rhythm and 
cardiovascular disorders. While we recognize the importance of this field of medical research, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that his work has already 
had a major influence in his field such as, for example, by significantly influencing treatment practices, 
development of therapeutics, or the direction of farther research. 
Rather than providing specific examples of how the Petitioner's work has already substantially 
impacted his field, the submitted reference letters point to the Petitioner's anticipated publication of 
his research in respected journals and the presentation of his work at prestigious conferences as 
evidence that validates the importance of his work. In addition, on appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes 
that his published research has been cited over 60 times illustrating "the major contributions" he has 
made to the field. However, the Petitioner's publications, conference presentations, and citation 
history, considered independently and in context with the evidence as a whole, are insufficient to 
satisfy this criterion. The record provides evidence that the Petitioner has published his research and 
presented at professional conferences in his field. Such evidence verifies that the Petitioner has shared 
his original research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from others in 
the field is such that it supports a finding that his work rises to the level of "contributions of major 
significance" in the field. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer­
reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which 
cite the petitioner's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of their 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 5 
Regarding his citations, within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google 
Scholar reflecting 50 cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his three cited articles 
received 35 (Annals of Hepatology), 12 (Journal of Vector Borne Diseases), and 3 (Indian Heart 
Journal), citations, respectively. 6 Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that 
the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published 
articles that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself: sufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation 
numbers recorded in Google Scholar confirm that one or more of his publications has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with 
"contributions of major significance in the field." Although he has submitted evidence that his work 
has been cited by other researchers throughout the United States and internationally, he has not 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 Ibid. 
6 The Petitioner's remaining 10 articles garnered no citations. 
5 
sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced 
the field in a significant way. Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the 
form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to 
establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his 
field. Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he 
did not establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" 
as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of several research articles that cited 
to his work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 7 The submitted research articles 
reference the Petitioner's work as evidence ofrecent research, and, while the articles indicate that the 
authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well as the work of the other cited scientists, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views his published findings as original 
contributions of ma·or si nificance. For instance the Petitioner rovided a co of a 2014 article 
titled 
(Indian Journal of Pathology & Microbiology) that references the ~----------~ Petitioner's 2 09 article in the Annals of Hepatology. 8 However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers, or otherwise indicate that the 
Petitioner's article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. 
Instead, the article briefly references his work as one of many previous studies assessing the short­
term prognosis ofi ~ I The Petitioner has not shown that his published articles 
through citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the 
Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon by 
others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly ranked 
or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
8 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he played a leading and critical role as a cardiovascular diseases 
fellow at th~ I He also claims that he performs a leading and critical role in his 
current position as a clinical cardiac electrophysiology fellow at the I I 
I 1-9 As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or 
was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines 
whether the role is or was critical. 11 
Regarding his current position, he references a letter from ~----------' chief of 
electrophysiology at I I who confirms the Petitioner's pos1t10n as a clinical cardiac 
electrophysiology fellow.12 However, the record establishes that the Petitioner did not hold this 
position at the time the petition was filed in March 2019. In its response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided hisl rr Fellow Appointment Agreement which shows that 
his appointment was to begin in July 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Because this criterion requires evidence that he "has 
performed" in a leading or critical role in the past, and because the Petitioner must establish eligibility 
at the time of filing in accordance with 8 C .F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ), he cannot establish his eligibility under 
this criterion based on a position he held beginning in July 2019, even if we were to determine that it 
otherwise satisfies all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
Regardin~ts fonner nosition as a rrdiovascular diseases fellow, the Petitioner provided testimonial 
letters fro ~-------~chief of cardiovascular medicine at I I The 
letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's critical role. 13 In his first letter, dated July 2018,I I 
indicates he worked with the Petitioner for two years, and he provides that during that time the 
9 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on his role as an internal medicine resident at . I betwee_n 2013 ~nd 20) 6 On a:nneaJ t:he Petitioner flaims eligibility based on the roles 
ment10ned above and does not address his role w1thl----------------:i~· ---·------·---------
10 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
11 Id. 
12 Although the Petitioner's appellate brief asserts thatL Is letter is attached, the record in this case does not 
contain a copy of it. Rather, the Petitioner submitted!.__-------'~ letter in support of a subsequent employment­
based, second-preference petition he filed in December 2019. 
13 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
Petitioner evaluated patients with life threatening cardiac problems and performed diagnostic and 
therapeutic procedures, including echocardiography, coronary angiography, angioplasty, and 
pacemaker insertions, independently and under supervision. I I further emphasizes the 
Petitioner's work "is providing an enormously important national benefit to the United States" as there 
is a "great need for specialists" in the area of cardiology and the subspecialty of arrhythmia. Assuming 
the Petitioner's skills are unique, the classification sought was not designed merely to alleviate skill 
shortages in a given field. 
In an additional letter, dated March 2019,I I asserts that the Petitioner "has been a critical 
member of our cardiology team and an asset to our institution due to his one-of-a-kind clinical and 
research work" and claims "he is one of a very few number of physicians at our institution who have 
a wide range of experience in taking care of exceedingly complex patients who often come to the 
hospital with cardiac emergencies." I b statements establish that the Petitioner performed 
admirably in his role as a cardiovascular diseases fellow in his division. They do not offer probative 
details explaining how his fellowship role is a "leading" role based on his placement within the 
school's organizational structure or provide sufficient support for a finding that his role was of 
significant importance to the school's standing or success consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
Further, although he claims the Petitioner performed "one-of-a-kind" research work he does not discuss 
any of the Petitioner's research and publications or establish how his research activities within his 
division establish his leading role withi~ I 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18019230 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an applied mechanics engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal of the Director's decision, as well as the Petitioner's subsequent motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider. The matter is again before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the 
Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. As such, the issue before us is whether the 
Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the 
previous combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A Procedural History 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets five of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner only satisfied two of the claimed criteria; 
specifically, the criteria related to judging the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). On appeal, we determined that the Petitioner met the authorship of 
scholarly articles criterion, but we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the 
judging criterion after concluding that there was insufficient evidence of his participation in peer review 
activities. We also determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied the criteria relating to memberships 
2 
and published materials. We reserved and did not discuss the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that the Petitioner would not satisfy the initial evidence requirements even if he 
established that this criterion had been met. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner addressed the criteria relating to judging the work of others and original 
contributions. Specifically, he asserted that we overlooked certain evidence that was previously 
submitted and stated that he was submitting new evidence establishing that he meets the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also requested that we review all evidence related to the original 
contributions criterion that we previously reserved, including new evidence submitted on motion. 
We concluded that the new evidence submitted in support of the motion to reopen established that the 
Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and we withdrew our appellate 
determination with regard to that criterion. However, we determined that the Petitioner's evidence on 
motion did not satisfy the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We dismissed the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, determining that the Petitioner had not established that he 
met a third criterion and thus had not met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, nor 
had he demonstrated that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS 
policy. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
The Petitioner asserts that he has made original contributions of major significance based on his 
doctoral dissertation at University ofl I in which he studied! I 
inl I due tol I interactions, and based on his work as a senior applied mechanics 
engineer withl l where he worked on the development and commercialization of1 I 
supports and restraints forl !applications in the energy industry. 
In dismissing the prior motion, we acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of letters from 
colleagues and other scientists and experts regarding his original contributions in his field. 2 While the 
letters summarized the Petitioner's research achievements and broadlv discussed the potential impact 
of his mechanical engineering research in thd O I andl I industries, we determined 
that they did not establish that his original contributions were already recognized as majorly significant 
within these fields. 
We also noted that the inclusion of the Petitioner's published work in conferences and journals 
reflected the originality of that work, but determined that such publications and presentations alone 
did not establish that his research has been regarded as an original contribution of major significance 
in his field. Specifically, with regard to search results from Google Scholar indicating that one of his 
papers had been cited by others a total of seven times, we noted that he did not provide any comparative 
data suggesting that this level of attention from other researchers reflects widespread commentary 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 Although we discussed a sampling of letters in our prior decision, we reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
about his work that is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. Regarding 
numerous letters of recommendation submitted by the Petitioner, we determined that while the letters 
recognized the originality, importance, and/or prospective benefit of the Petitioner's graduate research 
and professional contributions at I I they did not contain detailed information showing the 
unusual influence or high impact the Petitioner's contributions have already had in the engineering 
field or in thel O landl I industries. 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits evidence previously submitted, as well as an 
additional letter of support froml !Production Development Advisor atl I ~ an additional letter of support froml I and new material relating to companies and 
practices in the I I industry intended to establish his eligibility for the requested classification. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he "still maintains that he has made original contributions of 
major significance to the field," and asserts that his innovative research and application of the 
engineering computation tool -thel I -has been widely implemented 
throughout the field." He argues that his application ofLJ combined with the fact that his research 
papers have been cited over 70 times, establishes the widespread recognition and application of his 
research in the field. The Petitioner also asserts for the first time that the evidence submitted is also 
sufficient to establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner begins by asking us to "revisit" previously submitted documentation, including 
evidence of his publications and citation history and letters from various individuals discussing his 
research and accomplishments. The Petitioner resubmits copies of several of these documents for our 
reference, and again asserts why he believes such documentation is sufficient to establish that he meets 
the original contributions criterion. The Petitioner farther acknowledges that he understands that "the 
above already exists in the record," and indicates that he is resubmitting such documentation "for 
convenience and clarity." 
As stated previously, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary 
evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what 
constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board's definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(l) 
(stating that a motion to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could 
not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do 
not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." While the Petitioner's assertions regarding his publication history and the opinion letters 
is noted, the Petitioner nevertheless offers previously submitted documentation for our review on 
motion. As this evidence does not qualify as "new" and we already evaluated it in earlier proceedings, 
we will not farther consider it in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner offers two new letters in support of his motion, and asserts that these letters "offer 
additional analysis of his contributions and the expanding ramifications for companies who benefit 
froml I's I I' A letter from 4 the Petitioner's colleague at 
I I again explains that the company is a world leader i sed inl I 
andl I power production, as well as.__ ______ __. an .......... ____ __.facilities. The 
letter also repeats previous statements regarding the Petitioner's role in the development ofl I I I, and how he was a leading influencer in moving the manufacturing of these! I 
from a sister facility in China tol ~ U.S. operations. In addition,! ~ again credits the 
Petitioner's involvement in developing automation tools to expedite the creation of thel I 
I I 
This letter largely mirrors the previously submitted letter submitted in su ort of the first motion. 
However, the new letter states that the Petitioner's accomplishments at were the result of his 
~ation of thel I which had not previously been used at prior to his arrival. ~ 
L__J also claims that the Petitioner's role in developing! ~ allowed! Ito provide 
cutting-edge and reliable! I products to clients in the critical I I sector, such as I land' I 
tter provides support for his conclusion that the Petitioner was a valuable asset to 
highly skilled engineer, but he does not explain how his role in the development of 
constitutes an original contribution of major significance. I I praises the 
Petitioner's use ofl I in the development process, and the manner in which it simplified the 
development process to an extent. However, he does not sufficiently explain how the use ofc=J in 
developing! I which he indicates must be designed in accordance witf industry lodes 
and regulations, constitutes an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, does 
not explain to what extent the Petitioner's role in the transfer ofl I~ I 
manufacturing from China to the United States amounts to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
The petitioner also submits a new letter from I I a former project engineer for one of 
I ts custo~ers 51 I again describes the Petitioner's research in this area, and again 
refers to his use of l analysis to verifyL • 0 • • ldesign for his former employer. H 
.__ ________________ __. " noting that "it was not a surprise for me to learn that he 
4 This is the third letter the Petitioner submitted;.,;:;fr;:;.;;o:.:c:rrlc!=====r---' 
5 The record contains a previous letter from thel I which was submitted in support of the Petition. 
5 
was ~ublishing and presenting his "ASME" paper at ASME's.__ _____ ~in 2015.6 E,......· ........... .........., 
whilel I credits the Petitioner with contributing to the improvement of safet in 
systems and making "critical recommendations in order to upgrade and enhance the .......... --~~--' 
he does not provide farther explanation or examples of how the Petitioner's work or the study noted 
above achieved these claimed safety improvements or how the study had been implemented in the 
industry. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although the Petitioner submits additional letters on 
motion, they do not offer farther insight into how his original research has already influenced or 
impacted the field. While the letters again establish that the Petitioner's original work has added value 
to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened avenues for farther research, they are insufficient to 
confirm that the level of attention his work has received in this area reflects widespread commentary 
and acceptance of his work, or that the mechanical engineering field regards his work as authoritative. 
Similarly, while we again acknowledr that the Petitioner published the above-referenced study and 
introduced efficiencies intol 's I I design process, the submitted letters do not 
contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact his research or 
work has had in the wider field or that any research that contributes to incremental advancements in 
an important industry is an original contribution of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner also refers to previously submitted search results from Google Scholar, claiming that 
since his research has been cited 70 times, this demonstrates that "his research has been used and 
validated by other experts in the field." On motion, the Petitioner also provides several Internet 
excerpts and articles generally discussing citation statistics to support this assertion, noting that the 
number of times a paper or article is cited is incongruent to its significance and impact on a given 
field. 
Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced, is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. Here, the Petitioner has 
not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation numbers recorded in Google Scholar 
confirm that one or more of his publications has provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the 
field." Although he has submitted evidence that his work has been cited by other researchers, he has 
not sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise 
6 In our prior decision, we noted that the referenced paper was accepted for the 2015 ASME '----------.,,,,.... 
.__ _______ _.I; however, we determined that the record did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work had been 
cited by other researchers or otherwise established that the study had attracted widespread commentary or been 
implemented by others in the industry. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
influenced the field in a significant way. 8 Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating 
evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not 
sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings have remarkably impacted or 
influenced his field. Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced 
his work, he did not establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major 
significance" as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence submitted on motion also demonstrates that he has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 11 
On motion, the Petitioner relies on the newly submitted letters froml I andl I noting 
that the letters establish that he "was the lead engineer for one of the most reputabl~ I 
specialists for their most advance engineering group." Specifically, the Petitioner asks us to consider 
I Is statement where he indicates that the Petitioner's "work was critical to our ability to 
provide cutting-edge and reliable! I which ensures the security and reliability of our 
product to companies (and their customers) throughout the United States and the world." The 
Petitioner farther relies on I Is letter, which noted that the Petitioner occupied a critical role 
"as a conference presenter, publisher, and/or employee of other distinguished companies." 
The record shows that the Petitioner played a significant role in the Ap]lied Mechanics Unit for 
I I and applied his innovative research to industrial I and the development of 
I I The record, however, does not provide the sense of scale necessary to show 
that the Petitioner's role was leading or critical for I las an organization, and not just for the 
individual projects performed within the Applied Mechanics Unit. 
A given unit or project is not, itself, an or~anization or establishment, and the record does not show 
that the Petitioner was sufficiently high in ~ s organizational hierarchy to have a significant 
8 For example, the Petitioner resubmits a copy of his paper titled~-----------------~ 
and relies on citations to the paper in support of his assertion. Previously submitted search results .....,,....---=--.,.......,,,.....,...---,-~. from Google Scholar, however, indicate that this paper had been cited by others a total of seven times since its publication 
in 2012. The Petitioner did not provide any comparative data suggesting that this level of attention from other researchers 
reflects widespread commentary about his work that is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. 
9 While we acknowledge the submitted Internet articles and excerpts regarding the value of citations, we find them 
unpersuasive. For instance, one submission is an opinion piece from www.lucbeaulieu.com, which appears to question 
the value of a number when reviewing citations of a given piece of work. We do not find such evidence probative here, 
as the issue before us is not the number of citations the Petitioner's publications have garnered, but whether his work has 
already been widely implemented or significantly impacted the field. 
10 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
11 Id. 
7 
effect on the company as a whole, rather than the subdivision that works with applied mechanics. 
While the letter from! !indicates that the Petitioner was placed in a "lead position" or a "lead 
role" and oversaw a team of engineers in the Applied Mechanics Unit, this team is not, by itself: an 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. Moreover, the exact position held by 
the Petitioner during his tenure wit~ lhas not been sufficiently defined. 
Again, whilcl Is letter attests to the importance of the Petitioner's role within the Applied 
Mechanics Unit ofi l it does so in the context of specific projects within a specific subdivision 
of the company. While the letter indicates that the Petitioner's work was profitable for the company, 
in terms of both revenue and innovation, it does not indicate the significance of the Petitioner's 
financial impact relative to the entire organization. The submitted information shows that the 
Petitioner has led a unit of engineers on several projects, but that unit is not an organization or 
establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
Nor are we persuaded by the Petitioner's claim that his role as a conference presenter, publisher, and 
various undefined roles within other organizations, as stated in I ts letter, demonstrates that 
he performed in a leading or critical role for companies or establishments with distinguished 
reputation. Generally reciting all positions the Petitioner has occupied during his career, while notable, 
does not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. Moreover, this general claim, absent information 
identifying the organizations or establishments for which he claims to have performed a leading or 
critical role, precludes us from determining whether such entities had a distinguished reputation such 
that we could farther evaluate the nature of his role within each such organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Considered together, the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, the evidence 
consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, and the citation statistics establish 
that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon 
by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance in his field, or that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the new evidence 
submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion, nor has he shown that 
our previous decision was based upon an incorrect application of law or policy. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Although the Petitioner indicates that he is concurrently filing a 
motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's general request that we reconsider our prior decision does not 
specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does he attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 
Here, the Petitioner relies on the new evidence he submits on motion, particularly the new letters 
submitted to demonstrate that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions, as a 
basis for reconsideration of our decision. While the Petitioner states that he respectfully disagrees 
8 
with our prior determination that the previously submitted letters were insufficient to demonstrate that 
this criterion had been met, he does not argue or point to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in 
our prior decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. Disagreeing with our conclusions without 
showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the 
evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, 
the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, 
our decision thoroughly analyzed and explained why every piece of evidence and argument addressed 
in the motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
we erred in either misapplying law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief and additional evidence in support of the current 
motion, he does not contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous 
motion to reconsider. The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and is otherwise qualified for the requested classification, and 
his repetition of arguments he previously made in support of his appeal and prior motion, do not meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. As 
such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and must therefore be 
dismissed. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision, nor 
does the new evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18236398 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has appeared onstage with thel I acting company since 1992. She has 
also appeared on several television programs and in a small number of motion pictures. In 2000, she won 
a National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress for her work in the filml I. The Petitioner 
has entered the United States several times since 2018, most recently in March 2020, as a B-2 
nonimmigrant visitor, a classification that does not allow employment in the United States. 2 I I 
Television, a I I network based inl I intends to feature the Petitioner in television 
productions once she is authorized to work in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, numbered (i), (iv), and (vii). We 
will not disturb this conclusion. We need not address the other claimed criteria, because the three 
granted criteria are enough for us to proceed to a final merits determination. 
1 The record contains alternative transliterations of several names and titles, including the Petitioner's name, but in context 
it is evident that the different spellings refer to the same subjects. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 214.l(e). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility. 
The Director acknowledged tha~ Is National Film Award is nationally recognized, but the 
Director concluded that the award has diminished weight because "it was awarded twenty years ago for 
Best Supporting Actress and not for Best Actress." But the distinction between "Actress" and 
"Supporting Actress" concerns the nature of a given role, rather than the quality of the performance or 
the reputation of the actor. Casting decisions may rely on many factors unrelated to the recognition of 
individual actors. 
The Director is correct that the Petitioner received the award 20 years before she filed the petition. As 
such, the award by itself does not demonstrate sustained acclaim. But the petition does not rest on the 
award alone, and the Petitioner does not place undue emphasis on it. In newspaper articles in the record, 
the Petitioner emphasizes that she considers herself a stage performer foremost, and the articles discuss 
her television work more than they discuss her infrequent film roles. 
Regarding that newspaper coverage, the Director correctly found that many of the submitted articles lack 
the author credit required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The requirement of an author credit serves 
several important purposes. If the bulk of an individual's coverage comes from one reporter, for instance, 
then there is doubt about the breadth of that individual's recognition. Press releases written by a hired 
publicist can be self-serving, regardless of which publications subsequently publish them. And articles 
written by petitioners themselves, or by those with close ties to them, would obviously have minimal 
weight as evidence of acclaim. Nevertheless, we can consider the submitted articles in the holistic context 
of the final merits determination. 
The Petitioner submits evidence establishing that the Daily Star is a significant newspaper in ~I---~ 
The record contains several Daily Star articles about the Petitioner, dated between 2012 and 2019. In 
some instances, the headlines refer to the Petitioner only by her first name, indicating an assumption that 
the readers would be familiar with the Petitioner and her work. Several other newspapers covered the 
Petitioner's work during that same span of time. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Daily Star also reported frequently on productions byl I calling it "one of the most 
notable theatre troupes in the country." The Petitioner states that she has appeared in almost every I I production since she joined the group in 1992. A founder of the group, now serving 
as its chief secretary, states that the Petitioner "is known all over the country as a star theater performer." 
Other high-ranking individuals inl I attest to the Petitioner's reputation in the field. Most 
prominently, the country's Minister oflnformation calls her a "legendary actress" whose "contributions 
... are outstanding." Top executives of various television networks make similar assertions. The contract 
that secured the Petitioner's services as a judge on a talent competition calledl I calls her "an 
esteemed cultural figure inl t' There is a limit to the weight we can afford to such letters, 
whatever their quantity. The highest levels of acclaim will produce a variety of documentary evidence 
prior to, and independent ot: the filing of the petition; an actor whose career has left little public trace 
until she solicits letters specifically in support of the petition will have difficulty establishing eligibility 
for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. But, in this case, the Petitioner has not relied on such 
letters to the exclusion of more persuasive forms of evidence. Even if we set the letters entirely aside, the 
record presents an award-winning career that has consistently attracted media coverage. 
Some of the specific claims in the record lack evidentiary support, such as assertions that!.__ ___ __. 
was "one of the most watched programs in television," and that the Petitioner's performances with I l"are regularly sold out," even as the Petitioner contends that box office figures are not 
available. In the absence of corroborating documentation, these assertions do not establish commercial 
success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Nevertheless, when a petitioner has claimed to satisfy more than 
three of the ten baseline criteria, that petitioner need not meet all of them to establish eligibility in the 
final merits determination. Here, the Petitioner's evidence suffices to establish eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has presented a variety of evidence with significantly divergent weight and probative 
value, but as a whole, and on balance, the evidence submitted is sufficient to establish a prominent 
career inl I that has lasted for decades. The Petitioner has established sustained national 
acclaim. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17644740 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, which trains athletes inl lseeks to classify the Beneficiary ,~------~ 
coach, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements with respect to the 
Beneficiary's recognition as an athlete, it did not do so regarding his recognition as a coach. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The petitioning club has trained several champion! I[ inclulding the silver medalist at the 2016 
Olympics. In the United Kingdom, the Beneficiary trained at where he later worked as a coach. 
After entering the United States, the Beneficiary trained at the petitioning club. In early 2017, he began 
coaching for the Petitioner as an 0-1 nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability, while continuing to compete. 
We agree with the Director that the Beneficiary's gold medal at the 2014 .__ ______ __. 
Championships, while significant, is not a major, internationally recognized prize that qualifies as a one­
time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Without such a prize, the Petitioner must submit evidence 
to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director essentially stipulated that the Beneficiary meets at least three criteria as an athlete: 
• The Beneficiary won "many awards including the gold medal at the 2014._I ______ _. 
Championships," satisfying 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(~ 
• The Beneficiary's membership in Great Britain'sl___Jteam at the 2012 and 2016 Olympics 
is a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); and 
• "The record shows the beneficiary has received major media attention as an international 
athlete," fulfilling the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director also determined that the Beneficiary's coaching position with the Petitioner qualifies as 
a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation, satisfying 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
If the Petitioner had filed this petition seeking to classify the Beneficiary as an athlete of extraordinary 
ability, the above determinations would be sufficient for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to proceed to a final merits determination. The Petitioner, however, seeks to employ the 
2 
Beneficiary as a coach, rather than as an athlete. The Director determined that much of the Petitioner's 
evidence concerns the Beneficiary's achievements and recognition as an athlete, not as a coach. The 
Petitioner contends, on appeal, that the "Beneficiary's field of endeavor is I I and therefore his 
accomplishments as a competitor should have more weight than the Director afforded them. 
In this respect, it bears noting that the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Beneficiary "continues to 
compete as al I on a national and international level." The petition form indicates that the 
Petitioner intends to employ the Beneficiary only as a I I coach, but this does not mean the 
Beneficiary has stopped competing. Rather, the Petitioner is not a professional team that employs 
athletes to compete on its behalf 1 Instead, thellteams are separate from the traTing dibs. The 
Petitioner's head coach is also the head men's~ch for Team USA, the national team. 
As the Petitioner observes on appeal, the USCIS Policy Manual directly addresses the issue of athletes 
transitioning to coaching: 
Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not 
in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes have gone on to 
be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that users can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Under this policy guidance, 
evidence of acclaim as an athlete cannot suffice by itse(fto establish extraordinary ability as a coach, 
but users can give proportionate weight to evidence of that acclaim when the record also shows that 
the acclaim has continued into the beneficiary's coaching career. The guidance in the Policy Manual 
does not specify that a beneficiary must satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria as both an athlete and 
a coach; rather, it calls for evidence of continued acclaim, which is an issue for the final merits 
determination. 
Given the above factors, the proper course of action is to conduct a final merits determination, seeking 
to determine whether the Beneficiary has achieved sustained acclaim both as an athlete and as a coach. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
1 Tax documents in the record indicate that the Petitioner paid $127,105 in wages in 2018, and the Benefici7 received more 
than a third of that amount. These figures do not indicate that the Petitioner has a salaried staff of competitive I 
3 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has 
established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record amply documents the Beneficiary's success as an athlete. As noted above, the Beneficiary 
has medaled at high-level international competitions. Ranking lists indicate that the Beneficiary 
ranked #4 in Great Britain in 2018, six years after his first Olympic competition. Most recently, the 
Beneficiary placed first in Britain's National Championships in spring 2019, about six months before 
the Petitioner filed the retitionl in October of that year. While continuing to compete, the Beneficiary 
also coached top-level first fo~and then, since early 2017, for the Petitioner. 
The record supports a determination that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim as a competitive! I The question before us is whether the Beneficiary 
has sustained that acclaim into his coaching career. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that 
he has done so. 
The Beneficiary's former coach atO who has also coached the British Olympic team, states that, 
at his club, the Berficiaj "trained athletes to compete at an Olympic and World Championship 
level," including a "who made it in the top 8 in the World Cup in a ground-breaking 
performance." 
The Petitioner's head coach, who has also served as a coach of the USA National! lteam since 
2011 and as an Olympid lcoach since 2008, asserts that the club has produced a record number 
of champions since the Beneficiary began working there, and he indicates that the Beneficiary is 
responsible for "the direction of the club" during the head coach's absence and, eventually, his choice 
as permanent successor. Twd I who train at the petitioning center, both of whom won medals 
at the 2016 Olympics, attest to the Beneficiary's high-level coaching activity at the Petitioner's 
facility. The record documents the performance of several I lwho train under the Beneficiary. 
The president and chairman of the board ofUS/\1 l(the sport's U.S. national overnin bod 
who is also the vice president of the sport's international governing body, th;;.;:eci.---.-------~ I I states that the Beneficiary's "positive influence on the US ~-~-has been felt on 
several fronts," including "[a]s a high level training partner for our USA Men's Team." 
These letters confirm that the Beneficiary has coached at the highest levels in the United Kingdom 
and the United States, training champion athletes who have already competed at the Olympics and are 
well situated to do so again. In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's 
coaching work amounts to leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation, satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the beneficiary possesses the required high level of expertise for the immigrant 
classification). 
4 
A leading or critical role is not enough, by itself: to establish eligibility, but in the context of the 
Beneficiary's recent ( and ongoing) acclaim as a competitive! I it is consistent with the conclusion 
that the Beneficiary is coaching at the same level at which he has been competing. 
The record establishes that the Beneficiary reached the top of his field as ~ I and has remained 
there as al I coach. We will therefore sustain the appeal and approve the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim in his field and 
submitted extensive documentation of his achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that the 
Beneficiary intends to continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that his entry 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18142743 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, aOcomputer executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of the classification through 
receiving a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a technology consultant and received his Bachelor of En in Computer 
Science and Engineering in 2002 frouL ____ ....-----...,..~---~---...J in! I 
India. At the time of filing, he was employed by.__ __ __. 1 ~---~ Maryland as a technical 
architect. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging the work of others in the same or an allied field 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that he performed peer reviews for the journal IEEE 
Transactions on Cloud Computing. The record also reflects that the Petitioner performed in a leading 
or critical role as a founding member of th~ I J team atl I an organization with 
a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that he meets the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria relating to memberships, 
original contributions, and high salary, and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.1 For the reasons outlined below, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence that sufficiently 
demonstrates that he meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The record shows that in 2017, the Petitioner's membership in the 
IEEE was elevated to "Senior Member" level, which he maintains satisfies the regulatory requirements 
of this criterion. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a 
copy of the IEEE bylaws, and argued that admission to senior membership requires "substantial 
responsibility or achievement." In support of this assertion, he highlighted relevant excerpts of section 
1-104.03 of the bylaws, which states as follows: 
3. Senior Member. The grade of Senior Member is the highest for which application 
may be made and shall require experience reflecting professional maturity. For 
admission or transfer to the grade of Senior Member, a candidate shall be an engineer, 
scientist, educator, technical executive, or originator in IEEE-designated fields .... 
The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at least ten years and shall 
have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years, such 
performance including one or more of the following: 
(a) Substantial responsibility or achievement in one or more of IEEE-designated 
fields; or 
(b) Publication of papers, books, or inventions in one or more of IEEE-designated 
fields; or 
(c) Technical direction or management of important work with evidence of 
accomplishment in one or more of IEEE-designated fields; or 
(d) Recognized contributions to the welfare of the professions encompassed by one 
or more of IEEE-designated fields; or 
( e) Development or furtherance of important courses in one or more of IEEE­
designated fields; or 
( f) Contributions equivalent to those of (a) to ( e) in areas related to IEEE­
designated fields, provided these contributions serve to advance progress 
substantially in IEEE-designated fields. 
(Emphasis added by Petitioner). 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
The Petitioner maintained that "substantial achievement," as contemplated by the bylaws, was no 
different from "outstanding achievement," noting that there appeared to be sufficient evidence to 
indicate "that they are equivalent in substance." 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the IEEE's stated requirements for admission as 
a Senior Member (professional maturity, ten years of relevant experience and "significant 
performance" over a period of at least five of those years) did not rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. The Director found the Petitioner's assertions 
unpersuasive, and concluded that membership requirements based simply on employment and/or 
activity in a given field cannot satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts his contention that there is no inherent difference between 
"substantial achievement" and "outstanding achievement." The Petitioner argues that the Director 
"advocated a novel policy interpretation" and did not provide authority for determining that 
"substantial achievement," as set forth in the bylaws, did not equate to "outstanding achievement" as 
contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
We exercise de nova review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 
26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to 
defer to findings made in the initial decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that 
were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. Upon review, while we acknowledge that the 
Director's decision could have provided additional reasoning to support its determination on this issue, 
we nevertheless agree with the Director's ultimate finding that the Petitioner's membership in the 
IEEE falls short of meeting the requirements of this criterion. 
According to the IEEE bylaws, "a candidate shall be an engineer, scientist, educator, technical 
executive or originator in IEEE-designated fields ... The candidate shall have been in professional 
practice for at least ten years and shall have shown significant performance of a period of at least five 
of those years." The bylaws further specify that "significant performance" can take the form of 
"[p]ublication of papers, books, or inventions." The Petitioner has not established that the IEEE 
requirements of 10 years of relevant experience in a particular field and "publication of paper, books, 
or inventions" rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with IEEE. 2 
Although the bylaws also indicate that "significant performance" can include "substantial 
responsibility or achievement," we do not agree with the Petitioner's assertion that "substantial 
achievement" equates to "outstanding achievement." For instance, the evidence indicates that the 
IEEE has a "Fellow" membership grade that appears to align more closely with the regulatory 
language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Specifically, according to the submitted IEEE bylaws, Fellow 
membership requires "an outstanding record of accomplishments" that have "contributed importantly 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
4 
to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology."3 In addition, one can 
apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and election at 
the highest levels of the association. 
While we acknowledge that the existence of this higher-level membership grade does not 
automatically lead to a conclusion that the Senior Member grade does not satisfy this criterion, the 
evidence contained in the IEEE bylaws provides useful context regarding how the association views 
a prospective member's qualifications. The existence of two different elevated levels of membership 
with different stated requirements indicates that the IEEE does not consider the "significant 
performance" required for Senior membership (which includes "substantial achievement," as asserted 
by the Petitioner) to be equivalent to the "outstanding accomplishments" required for Fellow 
membership. Further, the record does not establish that prospective Senior Members are admitted 
only after having their achievements judged by "recognized national or international experts in the 
field" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record, therefore, does not demonstrate that the IEEE's standards for Senior membership rise to 
the level of "outstanding achievements" as contemplated by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While this membership level does not appear to be available to all professionals 
with 10 years of experience in the field, and some persons who are elevated to Senior Member likely 
exceed the minimum entry requirements, the Petitioner must establish that IEEE requires Senior 
Members to have "outstanding achievements" as an essential condition of membership to demonstrate 
that his membership satisfies the requirements of this criterion. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner relies on his work relating to I I and his development of the._l ~--' I I technology for I I as evidence that meets this criterion. The Director determined 
that while his development of this technology and his advances irj I constitute original 
contributions, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his contributions are considered both original 
and of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director ignored critical 
evidence l)ertainin to his technology. He notes that despite submitting media reports 
discussin=--------' and its advances in the industry, the Director erroneously declined to 
afford this evidence sufficient evidentiary weight. 
3 The requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely with the regulatory language than the 
requirements for the Senior Member grade: 
2. Fellow. The grade of Fellow recognizes unusual distinction in the profession and shall be conferred by the 
Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of 
interest . . . . The accomplishments that are being honored shall have contributed importantly to the advancement 
or application of engineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society .... 
5 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.4 For 
example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Director determined that the media reports and letters of support from 
the Petitioner's colleagues were insufficient to meet this criterion. We find no error in the Director's 
determination. 
On appeal, while the Petitioner acknowledges that most of the media reports submitted, as noted by 
the Director, pertained to th~ I industry in general, he asserts that the Director did not 
afford sufficient evidentia an article published on www.gartner.com titled I I 
Accordin to the Petitioner, this 
article indicates that the Petitioner's em lo er is the leader in L..--;-----..-----' 
services worldwide, noting that.__ ________ __,of the article confirms.__ __ ___, s position 
at the top of the industry, just above its com etitor The Petitioner concludes that this rarkingl 
"is a clear indication of the impact of.__ _____ _.brought about with its uni ue ability for 
I I The Petitioner also references an article published on s own website 
indicating that the company is positioned as a leader in the.__ _____ _. for worldwide! I 
professional services for 2020. 
The record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner's contributions have already impacted 
the field at a significant level. While the articles referenced by the Petitioner demonstrate that his 
employer is a leader in the field of there is no indication tha~~---~t s position 
in the industry is a direct result of the Petitioner'~ I technology, or that this technology 
has been widely impacted beyond and its clientele. We do not doubt that the Petitioner is 
well-equipped to offer highly specializedLr----c____Jservices tol land that hisl I I I technology has been beneficial t-~---~'s position in the industry. However, regardless 
of the field of endeavor, the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" 
requires evidence of an impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013). 
The record also contains letters from the Petitioner's colleagues atl I regarding his original 
contributions in his field, which praise his achievements inl I_ and discuss his 
development of the I I technology. As noted by the Director, while some of these letters 
discuss the impact or potential impact of his contributions in broad terms, they do not establish that 
his original contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within his field. On appeal, 
the Petitioner does not address the evidentiary deficiencies in the letters as noted by the Director, nor 
does he contest the Director's determination that the letters do not specifically discuss how hd I I I technology has impacted the field beyond! I and its clients. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information exraining the unusual influence or high impact hisl ~ technology 
or his achievements in I have had on the general field. Letters that specifically 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that he has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 7 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner indicated that his annual salary of$135,300 was a "management 
level 7" salary, and was higher than the average base salaries of other U.S. executives employed in 
positions such as executive managers ($74,516), senior executive managers ($99,505) or top 
executives ($104,600). In support of this assertion, the Petitioner provided Internet excerpts from 
www.indeed.com and the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook Handbook . 
The Director determined that these general salary statistics for various executive-level positions were 
not a sufficient basis for comparison, as they did not reflect that the Petitioner earned a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field or specifically those at a 
"management level 7" salary. On appeal, the Petitioner simply states that "the law explicitly requires 
evidence that the beneficiary has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. See 8 CFR. The regulation does not state other 'high 
earners' in the field but states 'others' in the field." 
We agree with the Director's determination. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the submitted 
documentation pertaining to various "executive" salaries constitutes an appropriate basis of 
comparison to the Petitioner's position. The record does not sufficiently show that the data regarding 
this broad category represents an appropriate comparison against individuals engaged in similar work. 
See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. 111. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
Moreover, on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, the Petitioner classified his 
position under Standard Occupation Classification (SOC) code 15-1241, "Computer Network 
Architects ." While we note that he lists his job title on the Form 1-140 as al I 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
7 
"executive," his selection of SOC code 15-1241 as an appropriate classification of his occupational 
title contradicts his assertion that his position is executive in nature, and suggests that the appropriate 
basis for comparison is whether he commands a higher salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to other computer network architects in the field. The Petitioner must resolve this 
discrepancy in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter 
of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18459599 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an ecology thought leader and activist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder of a non-profit organization in his native I l .__ ______ __. I ~ through which he romotes his theories relatin to climate chan e. The record 
shows that these theories relate to th and 
that he also uses his foundation to promote his claims to have predicted the occurrence of 
solved "the mystery of the I I" and decoded hidden messages in =====:-=.,....A-lt-ho_u_g_,h 
he initially made vague references to wildfires in the Western United States, in responding to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) the Petitioner stated that he intends to establish his non-profit 
organization in the United States to "work[ing] on environmental education and ecological awareness, 
primarily with Hispanic communities, to stop climate change." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material about him and his work in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, his original contributions of major significance to his field, and his leading role for 
organizations having a distinguished reputation. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that he does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, material must be published in a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, and must be about a petitioner and relate to their work 
in their field of expertise. In addition, the evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
2 
material, and evidence in a foreign language must comply with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3) relating to full English language translations. 
As noted by the Director in his decision, the Petitioner submitted several articles which were published 
in a variety of mainly Argentine publications, many of which appeared to be about him and his work 
with th~ I However, in many cases the English translations which accompanied 
these articles clearly did not include a translation of the entire original foreign-language material, and 
in all cases the translator's attestation did not verify that the translations were complete and were 
therefore not compliant with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). As such, he concluded that this material could 
not be considered in the analysis of this criterion. Other deficiencies in this evidence were also 
identified by the Director in both his RFE and his decision to deny, including missing information 
about the name of the publication, the date of publication and the author, which in many cases was 
represented by hand-written notes which could not be verified. In addition, the Director concluded 
that the information regarding these publications was not sufficient to show that they were one of the 
qualifying types of media under this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially focuses on articles which appeared in the newspapers El Liberal and 
La Prensa, and submits new versions of some previously submitted articles together with new English 
translations. We note that other articles were also resubmitted with compliant English translations and 
translator certificates in response to the Director's RFE. An article in La Prensa published oH I P 2015 is about the 201tj !conference which was organized by the Petitioner and held in 
._ ______ _,,[ Uruguay and includes information about and comments from the Petitioner. He also 
submits a new letter from El Liberal which identifies the author of three previously submitted articles 
published in 2012 and 2013. Each of these three articles are about the Petitioner and his work as a 
climate change activist, and each is accompanied by a complete English translation and translator 
certification. 
Regarding the issue of whether these newspapers are professional or major publications or other major 
media, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director ignored evidence regarding the status and 
circulation of these two newspapers. 1 This evidence includes a translated excerpt from El Boletin 
Express, which the evidence indicates is published by an Argentinean organization called "IVC", 
listing circulation data for several Argentinean publications as of September 2012.2 In addition, an 
article from pressreference.com printed on March 12, 2020 provides information on the press market 
in Argentina as well as circulation figures for some publications. The IVC publication lists the 
circulation of El Liberal as approximately 25,000 on Sundays and 24,000 during the week, which is a 
fraction of the circulation listed for other publications such as Clarin (600,000 and 270,000) and La 
Nacion (356,000 and 176,000). In addition, the article from pressreference.com does not list this 
newspaper under the heading 'Top Ten Daily Newspapers" or in its list of "the 10 largest national 
newspapers." 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the 
publication is, as well as the title, date and author of the material.) 
2 The organization's website, www.ivc.org.ar, indicates that it is the Circulation Verification Institute and is "the most 
important organization in the advertising market in our country. The media are associated with the IVC so that a 
professional organization supports their circulation figures ... " 
3 
Turning to La Prensa, while the above evidence does list that newspaper as one of the ten largest in 
Argentina, the Petitioner indicated in his initial submission that this article appeared in a Uruguayan 
publication of the same name, and has not submitted information regarding its circulation. Although 
figures regarding website visitation were submitted, the Petitioner does not explain how these show 
www.seminariolaprensa.com to be a major medium, and we note that the figures are far below those 
shown in reports about other websites in the record. Therefore, as the Petitioner has not claimed that 
either newspaper qualifies as a professional or major trade publication, and the evidence does not 
establish that they qualify as major media, none of these materials qualify under this criterion. 
Other materials submitted with proper translations and translator certifications, both in response to the 
Director's RFE and on appeal, do not qualify under this criterion for a variety ofreasons. Articles in 
Critica De La Argentina, La Columna and Uno are about the Petitioner and his work, but the record 
does not include information about them which includes circulation figures, and thus does not establish 
that they are major media. 
The Petitioner also refers to evidence relating to a radio program hosted by the Petitioner,_! ____ _. I I in particular two reference letters. The first was from the General 
Manager of I I a radio station inl I who indicates that the station has 
transmitted the Petitioner's program since 2011. While the letter describes the program as "one of the 
most listened by the audience," no information to support this statement is provided. Another letter 
regarding this program was written byl I who states that he is the program's artistic 
producer. He describes it as focusing on "environmental, new technologies, ecology, healthy leaving 
[sic] and the best music of all times," and claims that it is broadcast "in 225 radios [sic] in 16 countries 
around the world." He also provides a list of radio stations which air the program, but the record 
includes confirmation and information about very few of the listed stations. In addition to the letter 
froml I an undated article in Seminario La Prensa, which is also not accompanied by a 
proper translator's certification, lists only 12 radio stations which broadcast the Petitioner's program. 
No farther evidence is provided regarding these stations, and the Petitioner has therefore not 
established that I I is or was published or broadcast on a major medium. In addition, 
we note that while the record shows that the Petitioner is the executive producer and host of this 
program, and that it focuses on the~---------~ regarding climate change, it has not 
been established that the program is about the Petitioner. 
The second letter highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal came from! I Chief of 
Content for I I in Argentina. He states in a letter dated June 1, 2015 that I I in I !Argentina has been broadcasting I since 2010, describing this weekly program 
~icro." No farther information is provided in this letter or elsewhere in the record aboutl I 
l___Jorl I As with the Petitioner's radio program, the evidence does not demonstrate that 
this "micro" is or was broadcast on a major medium, or that it was about him and his work. 
The Petitioner also included what appears to be a screenshot from the Y ouTube channel of D I I showing him being interviewed regarding al I race inl I However, as 
with the other materials initially submitted, this evidence is accompanied by an incomplete transcript 
of the interview in English, as well as an improper translator's certification. In addition, even if we 
were to consider the content of this transcript as being about the Petitioner and his work, he has not 
4 
established thatl I is a major medium in Argentina. The record includes a partially 
translated media kit that appears to combine viewership statistics across multiple platforms and social 
media, but does not include a basis by which to determine that these statistics show thatl I 
is a major medium. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion. 
B. Additional Criteria 
As we noted above, the Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he meets two additional criteria. 
However, since we have concluded that he does not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
he cannot meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria to establish that he satisfies the initial evidentiary 
requirement for this classification, and we therefore reserve these issues. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 