U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13072720 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney whose practice focuses on international law and policy, seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The Petitioner then filed 14 combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider. Some of these motions were dismissed; others were granted, in 
whole or in part; but each decision affirmed the core determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The matter is now before us on the 15th combined motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are 
disfavored for the same reasons as petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of 
newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) ( citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 
94 (1988)); see also Colors oflndiav. Nielsen, No. CV 18-4070-MWF (ASX), 2020 WL 3841042, at 
*3 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 6, 2020). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
who have earned sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, and whose entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed his 14th motion in November 2019; we dismissed that motion in June 2020. By 
regulation, the scope of the Petitioner's 15th and latest motion to reconsider is limited to errors of fact, 
law, or policy in our June 2020 decision. 
2 
One of the regulatory eligibility criteria concerns performance in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(viii). In our 
June 2020 decision, we affirmed a prior finding that the Petitioner's vice chairmanship of a committee of 
the ArnericanBar Association (ABA) occurred after the petition's filing date, and therefore couldnot 
establish eligibility at the time of filing. On motion, the Petitioner states that this finding "was 
incomplete," because he had previously served in leading or critical roles for other organizations, 
particularly what he calls "United Nations-centric" roles with the I Bar Association and the 
United Nations Secretariat. 
We have already addressed the Petitioner's core claims about his work with these organizations in prior 
decisions. Our initial appellate decision addressed the issue extensively, as did the first motion decision. 
Those decisions are no longer before us. The Petitioner hasestablishednoerrorin our June 2020decision 
that would compel us to revisit the issue yet again. 
Significantly, in his Novernber2019rnotion, the Petitioner did not mention the United Nations Secretariat 
or thel Bar Association. Because the November 2019 motion was the only matter before 
us in June 2020, we did not err by failing to reach back further into the record and readjudicate claims 
that we had already addressed in prior motions years before (nor are they ripe for review in any future 
motions). 
Fmiherrnore, the Petitioner's submission of evidence that he could have submitted years ago does not 
establish cause for reopening the proceeding. This, too, was explained in multiple p1ior decisions. Some 
of this evidence concerns a short-term, unpaid student internship at the United Nations Secretariat, which 
the Petitioner undertook in 2006-07. We already concluded in prior decisions that this internship was 
neither leading nor critical with respect to the United Nations. The submission of additional 
documentation from that internship does not alter this conclusion. 
Other evidence concerns the Petitioner's ongoing activities with bar associations at various levels. As 
explained previously, we need not consider the Petitioner's current activities unless the Petitioner has first 
established eligibility at the time he filed the petition in May 2010. 
In his 13th motion, the Petitioner claimed that exemption from ABA reimbursement limits satisfies the 
regulatoryrequirernentat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix),relatingto "[e]]videncethatthe alien has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." As 
we first observed in our October 2019 decision dismissing the Petitioner's 13th motion, and again in our 
June 2020 decision, the evidence concerns reimbursements that the Petitioner received after the filing 
date, which cannot establish that the Petitioner was eligible at the time of filing as required by 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). The Petitioner did not overcome this determination in his 14th motion, and it is no longer 
ripe forreview on the 15th motion or in any hypothetical future motion. In his latest motion, the Petitioner 
takes issue with a footnote in our decision concerning taxation ofreimbursements. This question was not 
central to the outcome of our decision. Further discussion of this side issue will not change the 
fundamental issue that the Petitioner received these reimbursements after the filing date. 
3 
The Petitioner contends that we have discretionary authority to waive the application of the regulations 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l) and (12), which we have "continuously declin[ed] to exercise." The Petitioner 
has made this claim before, and we rebutted it in our eighth and ninth motion decisions. In raising it yet 
again, the Petitioner cites no statute, regulation, or policy to show that we have that authority. The bare 
assertion that we have such authority does not satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), which 
requires the Petitioner to support its legal arguments. The Petitioner maintains that "the unique 
circumstances of this case" warrants such a discretionary waiver, but the Petitioner does not explain what 
those "unique circumstances" are. Therefore, we will not review the entire record in the aggregate, as the 
Petitioner requests, nor will we revisit issues already decided in the appellate decision or earlier decisions 
on motion. 
Having contended that we should waive the requirement that the Petitioner establish eligibility at the time 
of filing, the Petitioner offers new assertions that he was, in fact, eligible at the time of filing. The 
Petitioner establishes that he qualified for immigration benefits inl I (in 2006) and I 
(in 2008) that, he claims, are functionally equivalent to the immigrant classification he seeks in this 
proceeding. The Petitioner does not explain why he waited until his 15th motion to bring this information 
forward, nor does the newly submitted evidence support his claims that the immigration benefits in 
question are comparable to classification as an alien of extraordinary ability under U.S. law.I I 
"Quality Migrant Admission Scheme" refers to "highly skilled or talented persons." The Petitioner 
submits no information regarding the requirements of I "Landed Permanent Residence 
Scheme." The Petitioner has not established the relevance of this newly submitted evidence, regarding 
facts that the Petitioner did not claim in his initial filing or in any subsequent motion over the last ten 
years. 
In his 14th motion, the Petitioner claimed to have suffered violations of his Constitutional right to due 
process. In our June 2020 decision, we explained that we have "no jurisdiction to consider Constitutional 
claims," and that "the Petitioner has not established that any violation of the regulations resulted in 
prejudice." The Petitioner contends that "constitutionality review is not what the Petitioner asse1ied in 
the prior motion," but that is exactly what his due process claim entailed, and in the present motion he 
refers to "constitutional transgressions" and "constitutional Fifth Amendment substantive due process." 
The Petitioner asserts that our "conduct appeared to be egregious and outrageous and shock the 
contemporary conscience," but rather than explain further, the Petitioner cites a number of court cases 
that did not concern immigration appeals. The Petitioner does not explain how the cited cases relate to 
this proceeding, or how the dismissal of an appeal and subsequent motions is comparable to the 
"conscience-shocking" behavior described in those court cases. As we previously observed, "the 
Supreme Court has 'recognize[ d] that a benefit is not a protected entitlement if government officials may 
grant or deny itin their discretion."' TownofCastleRockv. Gonzales, 545U.S. 748, 756(2005). 
Quoting from various cited cases, the Petitioner uses words such as "brutal," "offensive," and 
"malicious," without explaining how any of those adjectives applies to the denial of an immigration 
benefit. 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner has not established that our prior decision was incorrect 
at the time of that decision. As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider, and therefore we will dismiss that motion. Furthermore, the newly submitted evidence does 
4 
not establish cause for reopening the proceeding, as it does not demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility at 
the time he filed the petition. Therefore, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. The motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20489784 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a general manager in the field of I seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a manager of a I I company in China who has over ten years of 
experience in the field. The Petitioner intends to continue working as a company manager in the field 
of in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four of the ten criteria, namely: 
membership in associations in the field which require outstanding achievements of their members 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); published material in major trade publications or other major media 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the published material and leading or critical role 
criteria 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii), and we agree with that determination. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise eligible for 
the classification sought. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously found that 
he did not satisfy the membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner has not 
pursued his initial claim that he meets the criterion related to high salary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in 
our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not meet three of the 
criteria, and therefore does not satisfy the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 1 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his memberships in the China Fisheries Association and the I IAquafarming 
Association. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the associations did not require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and therefore the Petitioner's memberships in these associations did 
not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's 
determination was erroneous, noting that the Director ignored relevant evidence, such as a letter from 
the president of the IAquafarming Association, submitted in response to the request for 
evidence. 
Regarding his membership in the China Fisheries Association, the Petitioner submitted a Letter of 
Certification from the association' sl I las well as a list of the association's 
members for 2019. According tol I China Fisheries Association's members "are composed 
of Chinese fishery company leaders, influential and representative people, and persons who have made 
outstanding contributions to China's fishery." He further states that "members need to submit a 
membership application, and they can join the association after being reviewed by the directors or the 
executive directors' review." I further confirms that the Petitioner joined the China Fisheries 
Association in February 2019. 
The Petitioner, however, failed to submit evidence of the membership requirements for this association. 
As the record does not contain the bylaws or other official documentation of the association's membership 
criteria, we cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's membership in this association is qualifying. 
Although I I described the personal accomplishments of the Petitioner, and provided profile 
summaries for several individuals he claims review membership applications for the association, he did 
not provide any evidence of the membership requirements of the China Fisheries Association, and 
whether membership is judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields 
pursuant to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner also claims that his membership in thel IAquafarming Association satisfies 
the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner submitted a Letter of Certification from the association's 
president, along with the section of the association's bylaws that pertain to membership criteria and 
excerpts from the association's website. 
Article 8 of the Bylaws for the Aquafarming Association states as follows: 
Individuals who apply to join the Association must meet the following requirements: 
(1) Support the Association's constitution; 
(2) Have the willingness to join the Association; 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member. and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
(3) Made outstanding influence or outstanding talents in _______ and 
trading industry; 
( 4) Be able to fulfill the association's membership! obligations; 
( 5) Willing to make greater contributions to the aquaculture industry with all 
members of this association. 
The bylaws reflect that outstanding influence or outstanding talents in the ~and 
trading industry are prerequisites for membership into the association. Influence and talent in the field, 
however, are not outstanding achievements, and we therefore agree with the Director's determination 
that the bylaws do not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by ignoring the information provided in the letter 
from the association's 11 I. Upon review we note that in a Letter of Certification,□ 
provides an overview of the Petitioner's career in the field, noting that he "has been deeply 
involved in the I field for more than 10 years and is an authoritative expert in thel field in 
China." He further confirms that the Petitioner has been a member of thel IAquafarming 
Association since 2013. 
While we acknowledge! I statements regarding the Petitioner and his accomplishments, the 
personal achievements of the Petitioner are not relevant to this criterion. Instead, the Petitioner must show 
that he is a member of associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. In his letter, did not establish that the I 
Aquafarming Association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a skilled manager in the field of I and that he has 
gained recognition for his abilities in the field. But he has not shown that this recognition rises to the 
required level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738613 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established his intent to continue work in his area 
expertise in the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.1 Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See also Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010), in which we held that, "truth is to be determined not 
by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality." 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act requires "the alien to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability." In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states that "the 
petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to 
continue work in the area of expertise."2 The record reflects that as part of the request for evidence, 
the Director instructed the Petitioner to submit evidence relating to his intent to continue work in the 
United States. Specifically, the Director stated: 
You must show how you will continue working in the United States in the claimed area 
of expertise. The record does not demonstrate that you have prearranged commitments 
for working in this field. Therefore, please submit evidence that you are coming to the 
United States to continue working in the field in which you claim to have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim. Evidence that may be submitted to satisfy 
this requirement includes, but is not limited to, letters from current or prospective 
employers, employment contracts, and a statement from you detailing plans on how 
you intend to continue work in the United States. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that "[t]hough requested, you did not submit evidence 
showing that you would continue to work in the U.S. in your area of claimed expertise." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief addressing only one of the two grounds for the Director's 
denial. Specifically, the Petitioner only contends that he satisfied eight categories of evidence, 
including through comparable evidence, and the totality of the evidence shows his sustained national 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual (providing that to qualify as a person 
of extraordinary ability, the beneficiary must intend to continue work in the area of his or her expertise). 
2 
or international acclaim. He does not address or dispute the Director's decision regarding his intent 
to continue work in his area expertise in the United States. 
Accordingly, we will not address this uncontested ground on appeal, and we deem it to be waived. If 
the affected party does not address issues raised by the director, and those issues are dispositive of the 
case, the appeal will be dismissed based on those waived issues. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's 
appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding the 
Petitioner's satisfaction of the categories of evidence. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) 
("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary 
to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate his intent to continue work in his area of expertise in the United 
States. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an 
independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20340150 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief technology officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been serving in the pos1t10n of chief technology 
officer/technical director forl I and its U.S. subsidiary since these 
companies were established in 2002 and 2012, respectively. Both companies specialize in the 
development ot-c=] management technologies and software solutions. The Petitioner began his 
career in the management software field in the early 1990s and holds several patents. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to four criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met his burden to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance and has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that 
the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii). 
We also agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires 
evidence of the person's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
2 
excellence in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner rovided evidence relating to two awards: 1 a 2018 
Business Award recognizin for "Best Internatio o_n_a_l 
Technologies"; and (2) a 2017 echnology Award issued to for its product ____ The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion because he did 
not show that he was the recipient of these awards. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his employer 
has confirmed that he is responsible for the development of the awarded technologies. He maintains that 
it is sufficient to establish that the awards are "traceable" to him despite the fact that his employer was 
the only named recipient for both awards. 
In evaluating evidence under this criterion, users must first determine whether the person seeking 
extraordinary ability classification was the recipient of prizes or awards. The description of this type 
of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards 
or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.1 Therefore, the Director's 
decision reflects that he applied established users policy by requiring evidence that the Petitioner 
himself was an acknowledged recipient of the awards documented in the record. Here, while the 
Petitioner's employer acknowledges his involvement in the development of its technologies, there is 
no evidence from the entities that issued the awards indicating that these awards programs were 
intended to recognize individual contributors within companies. As noted by the Director, both awards 
were granted to[ I 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to non-precedent decisions and asserts that this office has previously 
granted this criterion in cases where a company or employer was the recipient of an award. These 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind users officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the cited non-precedent cases were factually similar. For example, the Petitioner references a case in 
which an award issued to a corporation also separately listed individuals by name as award recipients. 
We found such evidence sufficient to establish that an individual was a recipient of the award, but this 
type of evidence is not present in this case. For the reasons discussed, we agree with the Director's 
determination that this criterion was not met. 
We also agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of published material about the petitioner in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, relating to the petitioner's work in the field. The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he was interviewed aboutl !products in the 2018 edition of the German 
publication Digital Druck ("Digital Print"). However, the interview is not "about" the Petitioner; the 
unidentified interviewer asked him general questions about digital printing and how customers can use I I products for certain applications, but the article does not provide information about the 
Petitioner himself beyond his name and job title. Further, the record does not contain evidence that Digital 
Druck is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. The Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to the German printing industry publication Deutscher Drucker ("German Printer") but 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the evaluation of evidence submitted in support of immigrant petitions for individuals seeking extraordinary 
ability classification). 
3 
did not provide similar evidence relating to Digital Druck. While it appears that the same publisher may 
also publish Digital Druck, the record lacks supporting evidence establishing the circulation and/or 
intended audience of this publication. The remaining evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
includes articles that do not mention the Petitioner and therefore cannot be considered published material 
about him. The Petitioner also submitted one 2020 article that was published subsequent to the filing of 
the petition and therefore cannot establish that he met this criterion at the time of filing. 2 On appeal, the 
Petitioner states that he "disagrees" with the Director's determination that he did not satisfy this criterion 
but does not further address it. For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner did not meet 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
III. BASIS FOR REMAND 
As discussed above, we agree with the Director's conclusions with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v) and (viii), including his determination that the Petitioner met two of these criteria. 
However, the record reflects that the Petitioner claimed to meet one additional criterion based on his 
authorship of scholarly articles published in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his publications at the time of filing. Further, in response to a 
request for evidence, he specifically claimed that he was submitting evidence for evaluation under this 
criterion. The Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim or the evidence submitted in 
support of this claim and therefore did not evaluate whether he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, because the Director did not consider 
the Petitioner's claim that he met a fifth criterion, and the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion, the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based upon this deficiency, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review that the Petitioner 
meets a third criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include a final merits analysis 
of the totality of the record. Specifically, the Director must evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he possesses the requisite sustained national 
or international acclaim, is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20844331 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al !engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or demonstrate, in the 
alternative, that he satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter 
of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a sound engineer and technical director who has worked on studio-recorded and live 
broadcasts in thel I industry since 2009. At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated 
his intent to establish a company to provide sound engineering services for thel I industry and 
other !projects and events in the United States.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the following criteria:2 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence that he registered a sole proprietorship business ______ I I in California in 2021. 
2 The Director observed that the Petitioner initially claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires 
evidence of his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence. As noted in the Director's 
decision, the Petitioner withdrew that claim when responding to a request for evidence; the Petitioner does not mention 
this criterion on appeal. In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he could 
satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence of the display of an individual's work at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, although the Petitioner generally asserts that he "renews his arguments," he does not 
mention this criterion or contest the Director's decision that he did not meet it based on the previously submitted evidence. 
Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these two criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which class[fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of 
others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization. 3 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a letter froml I who states he is a professor 
of sound engineering at the Institute of Television and Radio, and a senior 
sound director withl I and ______ I I states that he 
invited the Petitioner "several times to be a guest expert/judge for the Examination Commission in 
Sound Engineering at our university where [he] helped identify and examine graduating students on 
their knowledge and skills upon the final exam." 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter dated July 18, 2019, froml I faculty dean of the 
Higher School of latl I University named after I I 
"verifies that [the Petitioner] was a member of the jury of the examination commission." He indicates 
that the Petitioner was invited as an independent expert based on his experience as a sound director, 
and that he evaluated short-film projects for graduates. He further notes that each jury member "was 
representing a separate area of the filmmaking, such as work of operator, screen writing, acting skills 
and, of course, sound." Finally,! I states that the Petitioner provided a detailed and precise 
"criticism and analysis of sound component of each project" which "allowed more distinctly grade the 
works [sic]" 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director discussed these letters, noting that the letter from I I was not corroborated by evidence of the Petitioner's judging activities, lacked details 
about the specific dates of service, and did not identify whose work was judged or whether such work 
was in his field or an allied field. Similarly, the Director determined that the letter froml I 
did not establish the dates on which the Petitioner served as a jury member and was not supported by 
contemporaneous materials documenting his service or showing that he examined work in the sound 
engineering field. The Director allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to provide additional evidence 
in support of the criterion and advised that he should provide contemporaneous evidence that 
documents the event or occasion, the date of the event or occasion, and the work that was judged. 
Finally, the Director determined that the submitted translations ofl I documents were 
not accompanied by translations that fully complied with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3).4 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner submitted a printout of an email containing "Instructions for the 
Examination Commission." The sender of the message is identified only as and 
the recipient is I I The email indicates that the "summer examination 
commission" of I for second, third and fourth-year bachelor's degree students would take place 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 That provision states: "Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCTS shall be accompanied by a full 
English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification 
that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
3 
on designated dates in May and June 2019, provides room numbers, and indicates that a detailed 
schedule of the examination schedule would be sent to all members of the examination commission 
by April 30, 2019. It also indicates that invited members should advise the Dean's office in advance 
if they cannot participate. 
The Director acknowledged receipt of this additional evidence but noted that the submitted email is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served as a judge or that the referenced "examination 
commission" was required to judge the work of those in the sound engineering or a related field. The 
Director also determined that the Petitioner had not overcome deficiencies with respect to the 
submitted English translations of I documents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "the letter by satisfies the standard for 
this proceeding and it should be considered for its full value." The Petitioner acknowledges that the 
Director determined that the letter lacked sufficient detail but argues this conclusion did not amount 
to a "proper analysis" of the evidence submitted. Finally, the Petitioner maintains that the previously 
provided translations complied with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
We agree with the Petitioner that the translations that accompanied thel I evidence 
were sufficient to meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Nevertheless, we agree with the 
Director's determination that this criterion has not been satisfied. The Petitioner specifically asserts 
that the letter froml I adequately documented his prior participation as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or allied field. As noted,I ] indicates that he invited the 
Petitioner to be a "guest expert/judge for the Examination Commission in Sound Engineering at our 
university," and indicates that he "helped identify and examine graduating students on their knowledge 
and skills upon their final exam." Although! indicates that the Petitioner judged or 
helped examine graduating students in the field of sound engineering at the institution where he works, 
he does not provide specifics such as the dates of these examinations or the nature and type of authority 
or influence granted to guest experts/judges. For example, it is unclear whether such guest experts 
were responsible for determining whether a given student passed the exam or were otherwise involved 
in calculating grades or determining student outcomes. Therefore, we agree with the Director that this 
letter alone is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner participated in Jualifyingjudging activities 
as a member of an examination commission at the Institute of Television and 
Radio. 
The letter from I indicates that the Petitioner, as a member of the jury at an examination 
commission held at "thel _named after I evaluated sound engineering aspects of 
graduate film projects and provided "criticism and analysis" which facilitated the grading of such 
projects. He does not indicate how the examination commission was structured or what procedures 
were used to determine student grades and outcomes. Further, because the letter did not include dates, 
it did not sufficiently document a specific instance in which the Petitioner participated as a jury 
member. 
Finally, the e-mail containing "instructions for the members of the examination commission" was not 
clearly addressed to the Petitioner and refers to an examination commission at I I N eitherD I nor I state that they are affiliated withl I and the email alone is 
insufficient to establish that the Petitioner participated as a judge at an examination commission held 
4 
at I Further the email only indicates that the commission would be examining second, third-and 
fourth-year Bachelor's degree students; it does not identify their field of study and therefore cannot 
substantiate that the Petitioner participated as a judge of students in the field of sound engineering or 
an allied field of specialization. 
For the reasons discussed, the record does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, we will 
address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he has demonstrated original 
contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters from professors and sound 
engineering professionals, as well as letters from actors and clients who attested to his skills, talents, 
professionalism, his status in the field, and his possession of an uncommon ability known as al I 
which allows him to deliver optimum sound quality with minimal need for post-production sound 
editing. The Director determined that while this evidence establishes that the Petitioner's skills are 
highly valued, in demand, and have benefited his employers, the record did not show how his innate 
skills amount to an "original contribution" that has impacted the work of other sound engineers in the 
field or otherwise had an influence that extended beyond his employers. 
The Director further noted that some of the submitted letters attested to his introduction of new 
methods in sound engineering, specifically, a ______ technique. However, the Director 
noted that the record did not contain objective evidence that this technique was attributed to the 
Petitioner, as it did not contain patents, licenses or other objective materials crediting him with the 
development and use of the technique. 6 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he submitted letters from 
and others that "referred to [his] trained talent for sound with his unique physical ability known as I I' and which "confirmed [his] use of I I technique." As noted, the 
Director acknowledged receipt of the referenced letters, evaluated the statements made by academics 
and professionals in the field, and determined that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish 
that he had made an original contribution of major significance in the sound engineering field by virtue 
of having a I I or based on his use of the L I technique. The Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's specific reasons for finding the submitted letters and other evidence 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 The Director's RFE addressed this criterion and advised the Petitioner that he could submit evidence such as contracts 
with companies that are using his technique or technologies or other evidence that he developed licensed or patented 
technologies or methodologies used by a significant number of others. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include 
any additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
5 
insufficient to demonstrate the nature and significance of his contributions to the field. Instead, he 
simply maintains that his arguments were persuasive and should be reviewed. 
With respect to the recognition the Petitioner has received for his I I we agree with the 
Director's determination that the letters did not demonstrate how his natural talent and training have 
resulted in an original contribution of major significance to the field of sound engineering. We do 
not doubt that such talents have enabled him to be quite successful in the broadcasting indust and 
have been valuable to the networks and studios that have employed him. For example, 7 
a Member of the and Sound Engineer for the 
indicates that the Petitioner worked with him 
on projects for and that he later invited him to work on projects at I 
including the I I explains that a live television broadcast requires a 
sound engineer "who can detect and eliminate any problems with the sound equipment as fast as 
possible" and that the Petitioner "was extremely useful in these tasks." He also comments on the 
Petitioner's "extensive knowledge and experience" in their shared field and offers praise for the clarity 
and accuracy of the Petitioner's recordings, which he attributes to his I 11 I states 
that "it is not enough to have an education, experience and extensive training in our field to have this 
phenomenon, but also one must be born with it." 
The letter from ______ also comments on the Petitioner's talents and the high quality of 
his work. He states that the Petitioner has a rare I I that allows him to "detect subtle 
differences in audio reproduction that most people cannot" and that "this ability is vital not only for 
live broadcasting but also extremely important for the recordings" as it minimizes the time needed for 
editing when uniting sound with video. He also praises the Petitioner's "high professionalism and his 
capability getting alon[g] with team members as well as famous guest celebrities, who are often known 
for their capricious personalities." I I further emphasizes the Petitioner's "ability to 
think unconventionally when it gets to use sound equipment" and notes that "his experimental 
approach" is what "makes him what he is." However, he does not elaborate on a specific approach 
that has been adopted by others or that would be considered widely influential or impactfol in the 
sound engineering field. 
While these and other letters attest to the Petitioner's innate talent and considerable experience in his 
field, his professionalism, and his status in the field as sought-after sound engineer, they do not identify 
how he has made an original contribution of major significance. 
A second letter from written in his capacity as senior head of the sound department 
fo s orts network I describes how the Petitioner was "the first personl I 
to improve the quality of sound" for I 
broadcasts, and indicates that such technology had not been used before in 
_ As noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not offer additional evidence to establish that he 
was the originator of this technique or technology, or that his technique had an impact on the field that 
extended beyond his employer. 
7 While we do not discuss all of the submitted reference letters here, we have reviewed each one in evaluating whether the 
Petitioner established that he meets this criterion. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence related to the technique. 
Specifically, he provides a licensin contract between himself and which 
identifies him as the owner of" atent issued on 09/21/2020 fo 
The agreement is dated November 25, 2020. We note that 
this type of evidence was specifically requested in the RFE issued in March 2021; however, the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence relating to the patent or licensing agreement in his response. 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first 
time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 
533 (BIA 1988). 
Further, while a patent may demonstrate the originality of the Petitioner's 
technique, the evidence does not support a determination that this technique had been widely licensed 
or commercialized such that it was demonstrated to have had a significant influence or impact on his 
field as of the date of filing. There is no evidence that the Petitioner held this or any other patent when 
the petition was filed in August 2020. While he has now demonstrated that at least one company 
requested a license to use the patented technology, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Overall, the letters do not contain detailed, probative information that identify the Petitioner's 
contributions and explain their major significance in the field. Having a diverse, unique, or special 
skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and abilities to impact the field 
at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 8 In support of this criterion, the Petitioner initially 
submitted: 
• A "Contract Verification Letter" from indicating that he was 
contracted with this lcompany as a part-time Sound Engineer/Technical Director 
from February 2016 to September 2019 with a salary of 150,000 per month. 
• A "Contract Verification Letter" froml lindicating that he was contracted as a full-
time sound engineer/technical director from April 2009 until September 2019 with a salary of I 1260,000 per month, plus a quarterly bonus. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and 
position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
• Printouts from www.averagesalarysurvey.com providing the average salary for an "engineer" in I lbased on data obtained from visitors to the website. The survey indicates an average salary 
(nationwide) as 1.7 million and the average salary inl as 2,781,666. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted salary data for the occupation of 
"Engineer" did not provide an appropriate basis for comparison for the occupations of "Sound Engineer" 
or "Technical Director." Therefore, the Director determined that he had not provided any objective 
earnings data demonstrating that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
in relation to others in the same field. The Director requested that the Petitioner provide additional 
evidence, such as foreign tax documents, to document his prior annual earnings, as well as relevant 
comparative data such as geographical or position appropriate compensation surveys. The Director cited 
caselaw emphasizing that comparisons must be made to other similarly employed workers in the same 
industry. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the ________ Government 
Statistics! I. The letter states that the "average monthly wage" in the sound engineering field in 
I lin 2019 was 43,717 I I The Petitioner also provided copies ofhisl individual income 
tax returns (Formsl for the years 2018 and 2019. He reported total income of 6,835,770 
in 2018 and 7,285,320 in 2019. 
The Director determined that the submitted statistics from did not contain sufficient details to 
demonstrate what wage or remuneration would be considered "high" or "significantly high," as it was 
limited to averages without any additional breakdown. The Director also acknowledged receipt of the 
Petitioner's tax returns but emphasized that it was not accompanied by evidence that his "total income" 
was based solely on his salary or wages as a sound engineer and technical director. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he "renews his arguments" that he meets this criterion, noting that he 
"already provided evidence of significantly high remuneration for his services" with his initial submission 
and in response to the RFE. He also emphasizes that he is submitting evidence that he has started offering 
his services to clients inl I by opening a sole proprietorship business, but he does not explain 
how this evidence could demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others as of the date of filing. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that this criterion has not been met. While the 
Petitioner provided comparative salary data from I that information is lacking in probative details 
that would allow us to determine what constitutes a "high salary" for an experienced sound engineer and 
technical director working in the network television industry in only purports to provide 
average salaries for "the sound engineering field," without specifying which occupations or job titles were 
included, and without providing any salary ranges within that field. As such, the information it provided 
was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to other similarly employed sound engineers and technical directors. See Matter 
of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings 
versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
8 
The Petitioner indicates that he has been working as a sound engineer and technical director (with 
supervisory responsibilities), and that he had spent the last several years working concurrently for four 
different networks or studios. While his total income in 2018 and 2019 was provided on his tax returns, 
those returns were not accompanied by evidence demonstrating the source of that income, and whether it 
was solely from his earnings as a sound engineer and technical director. We acknowledge that two of his 
claimed employers provided letters stating his monthly wages, and that those figures were higher than the 
general average provided byl I Even if those letters had been accompanied by payroll or other 
corroborating evidence, it is not sufficient for him to demonstrate that one or more of his employers paid 
him a wage for his work as a sound engineer and technical director that is "above average" when 
compared to all salaries in "the sound engineering field" inl I 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner 
has commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration compared to other sound engineers and 
technical directors working in similar positions inl I The record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) or (ix). As noted, he claims that he can meet four criteria and must demonstrate 
that he meets at least three criteria to satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. 
While the Petitioner claims to meet one additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), our 
determination that he does not the three criteria discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. 
Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that he has performed in a leading or critical role with an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20993209 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 4, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and leading or critical role at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).1 However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
1 In one portion of the decision, the Director listed the evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion and stated 
that "the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion." However, in discussing the final merits determination regarding 
the leading or critical role criterion, the Director stated that "the record shows that the [Petitioner] has played a critical 
and/or leading role for organizations with a distinguished reputation." Regardless, because the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the final merits 
determination. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
international acclaim, 3 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner, who is 3 7 years-old, submitted evidence reflecting some successes and attention in 
2015 when he played for thel I of the,__ _____________ 
However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3). 
Based on his resume, the Petitioner played at the youth and amateur level for _______ 
1998 -2000 winnin the "Vice-champion" in the Brazil x Japan Tournament, and for 
(2000 -2003), winning the "Vice-champion" at the 4th 
_______ Tournament. The Petitioner also listed several tournaments and events for each 
team. However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence supporting his assertions on his resume, nor 
did he demonstrate the significance of the events. In addition, the record does not reflect that he 
received any acclaim, notoriety, or attention from his participation on these teams during this period. 
According to his resume and screenshots from I I and wikipedia.org, the Petitioner 
professionally played soccer for approximately 15 years for the following teams: 
• I I (2003 -2005) 
• (2005) 
• (2006) 
• Sport Club (2006 -2007) 
• Sport Club (2007) 
• SC (2008) 
• Sport Club (2009 -2010) 
• 2011) 
• 2013 
• (2013 -2014) 
• FC (2015 -2016) 
• (2017) 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(1) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate all the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety for the final merits determination, in the context of the high level of 
expertise for this immigrant classification). 
3 
• SC Indoor (2017-2019) 
• Football Team (2018) 
• Arena Soccer (2018) 
Prior to 2013, the record contains minimal, if any, documentation of both his performance and 
subsequent acclaim in the field. According to his resume, thel I Sport Club won the I I State 
Championship in 2007 and I lsc earned Vice-Champion status in 2008. The Petitioner also 
claimed various events for the teams, such as the I State Federation Cup forl I I I in 2006 and thel !State Championship for Sport in 2011. Again, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence supporting his assertions on his resume, nor did he demonstrate the 
significance of the awards or events. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how he contributed to the 
teams' successes or how he distinguished himself from the other players reflecting that he was among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field. 5 
During this timeframe, the Petitioner submitted 18 articles mainly about the teams in which he is 
briefly mentioned as a member. Further, the record reflects only two 2007 articles showing substantive 
press coverage of the Petitioner. 6 In fact, the record contains one article from 2004, one article from 
2005, nine articles from 2006, and 7 articles from 2007. Here, the Petitioner has not established any 
media reporting of him in 2003 and from 2008 -2012. Besides evidence of his employment, the 
record contains no other evidence of his soccer experience from 2008 -2012, let alone any receipt of 
accomplishments, achievements, or acclaim in this period. 
From 2013 -2014, the Petitioner indicated that he played for thel I and the 
______ in the United States. The record contains only one article in this period reporting 
that the Petitioner signed with the In addition, the Petitioner indicated that 
the I were "Vice-Champions" in 2014 and submitted a 20141 I Championship medal. The 
Petitioner offered no other evidence relating to his playing experience with the I and did not 
demonstrate any acclaim he received from playing with the 7 He did not, for example, show 
any attention he received or was credited with significantly influencing thel I performance, 
placing him among that small percentage at the top of the field. 
In 2015, the Petitioner's most documented success, he played for the I inl I During 
this time, the Petitioner received the "2015 recognizing the top 11 players in the I I In addition, he earned one "Player of the Week" honor and was selected to the 'Team of the 
Week" four times. Further, the chose him as the ________ and the team won the I I championship. Further, the Petitioner provided over 30 articles relating to thel lgames 
in which he is mentioned as being a contributor in the respective games, including coverage of his 
awards. In addition, the Petitioner served as captain of the Besides serving as captain for the 
5 The Petitioner submitted screens hots from Wikipedia regarding background information for I Sport 
Club, and Sport Club. Although he also provided photographs and contracts for these teams establishing his 
employment with them, the evidence does not indicate his performances, accomplishments, roles, or otherwise show that 
he garnered any ii.cclaim when he competed for them ----, 
6 See 2007 article from DM Esportes and 12007 article from 0 Popular. 
7 The Petitioner's resume claims that thel I participated in the Cup (2013)" and (2013)." The 
record contains no evidence to support this assertion, nor did the Petitioner show the significance of his performance at 
these events. 
4 
in 2016, the Petitioner provided over ten articles that reported on the games in which he 
was referenced as one of the players in the various games during the season. 
In 201 7, the Petitioner returned to I I to play for I I Although the Petitioner provided 
about eight articles reporting on him signing with the team, the record reflects that he only played in 
two games. Moreover, thel !competed in the second division rather in the country's top 
division. Then in the same year, the Petitioner returned to the United States to play for thel I I I in thel !Arena Soccer League. The Petitioner provided two articles reporting on him 
signing with the team. Further, an article from thel I website indicated that the Petitioner played 
in only one game with an injury ending his season. 
In 2018, the Petitioner was selected to the ___________ Team in the 
and served as its captain. The Petitioner submitted an article from the 
website reflecting that the Petitioner "is fully recovered," and indicating that the team 
finished in fourth place. The Petitioner indicated that he has signed a contract with the through 
August 2021. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner has played soccer, both at the amateur/youth and professional levels, 
for approximately 20 years. However, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown 
that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his accomplishments and 
achievements have placed him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently documented his soccer career that shows a career of sustained acclaim and meets 
this very high standard. 
Again, the Petitioner garnered some awards in the 2015 season when he played for the However, 
he has not demonstrated how his receipt of these accolades in 2015, without any documented before 
or after, reflects that he "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual 
of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
In addition, the Petitioner demonstrated that he was a member of the 
Team in 2018. However, the Petitioner did not show that his recent single team membership resulted 
in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects "that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) 
and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain media coverage or other evidence showing that he 
received national or international recognition based on his membership with the team. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish that he distinguished himself from others at the tournament, gaining 
national or international attention in the field. 
Regarding published material about him, the majority of the media coverage represents the 2015 
season, along with some additional, limited reporting for the 2016 season. However, the Petitioner 
5 
did not demonstrate that published material from 2015 -2106 represents sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that his overall press coverage is indicative of a level of 
success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that media reporting 
concentrated in 2015 -2016 reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard 
... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the Petitioner served as captain for the in 2015 and 2016 and for the _____ 
I ITeam in 2018. While we acknowledge that the won a championship in 2015 under 
his leadership, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his role was reflective of, or resulted in, 
widespread acclaim from his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not establish that he garnered acclaim or extensive 
recognition from the field based on his leadership, representing sustained national or international 
acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
We note here that the Petitioner provided recommendation letters praising him for his skills and 
abilities. For instanceJ I head coach for the I discussed the Petitioner's "unique 
anticipation method" and "game methodology." Moreover, I retired soccer 
player, opined on the Petitioner's "time abroad and his diverse experience in a range of clubs have 
developed in him a versatility that is most desirable in soccer." Further] l president of the 
indicated that the Petitioner was "an integral player of the successful 2015 team." Although 
the letters commend the Petitioner on his play, they do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being 
among the upper echelon or that he garnered recognition on a national or international scale, consistent 
with being among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 8 Further, the letters 
do not establish that he has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a 
career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for at the top of their respective fields. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even 
major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks 
omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); 
Hamalv. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 
8, 2021) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that letters indicating that a beneficiary is a competent, 
respectable figure within the field of endeavor but the record lacks sufficient, concrete evidence supporting such statements 
do not necessarily show the beneficiary's claimed extraordinary ability). 
6 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner 
need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the 
record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21302083 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 4, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a engineering researcher and specialist. He 
states that he intends "to promote and drive the development of groundbreaking research and 
development in the field of I engineering." 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three 
criteria and the Director concluded that he satisfied all three, relating to judging the work of others, 
original contributions of major significance in his field, and authorship of scholarly articles in 
professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
decision failed to address much of the evidence the Petitioner submitted and should be overturned for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director's final merits analysis is lacking a detailed 
discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together and consider the petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or 
not the petitioner has demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim and that their achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor). 
2 
evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi), the final merits discussion 
only briefly addresses part of the evidence for two of the criteria that the Director determined he had 
satisfied ( original contributions and authorship of scholarly articles), rather than considering the 
evidence in its totality.2 The Petitioner contends that the Director disregarded multiple expert opinion 
letters that address his standing in the field, evidence relating to his participation as a judge of the work 
of others, his awards (such as a "National Outstanding Technical Director" certificate), his speaking 
engagements at technical conferences, documentation showing the importance of his research 
contributions, and his professional memberships. 
Because the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did 
not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested 
classification. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a 
petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
In addition, we observe that the Director's final merits analysis applies incorrect standards in 
evaluating the Petitioner's publication record and citation evidence. For example, the Director 
decision focuses on the Petitioner's lack of first authorship of four of his scholarly articles published 
in English, but an individual need not be the first author to show acclaim in their research field. The 
Director's analysis also concludes that while the Petitioner provided information from Baidu Scholar 
showing that his articles published in Chinese have received 237 citations and from Researchgate.net 
demonstrating that his articles published in English have received 92 citations, his "overall number of 
citations ... do not indicate that [he] belongs to the very top of the field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim." The Director's decision, however, does not explain the reason for 
this conclusion or indicate why the bibliometric information offered by the Petitioner in the article, 
entitled did not provide 
a proper basis for evaluating his total number of citations relative to others in the field. 3 The Director's 
decision further states that the Petitioner did not submit his "citation history from the widely accepted 
Google Scholar." An officer, however, cannot predetermine the kind of evidence he or she thinks a 
petitioner should be able to submit and deny the petition if that particular type of evidence is absent. 4 
For all the reasons discussed above, the Director did not adequately or correctly explain the grounds 
for denial of the petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for further review and entry of a new decision. The new decision should evaluate the evidence 
together and include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional documentation the 
Petitioner has provided on appeal and the evidence previously submitted in support of all claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria, such as the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). As the Director 
already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria, the Director should consider the 
2 The Director's analysis of the evidence pertaining to these two criteria was limited to the Petitioner's citation counts, 
whether he was first author of his scholarly articles, and the total number of publications he authored. 
3 While bibliometric statistics showing how often others in the field are cited can serve as a metric of acclaim and renown 
within the field, the comparative information in the Insights into Imaging article is limited to authors who have published 
in that particular journal. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra. 
3 
petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or not the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20486742 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 08, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur and financier, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in 
the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203 (b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, it 
did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage of those at the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner served as from May 2012 until December 2014, and is a co-
founder and chairman of a telecommunications company operating 
mainly in Africa. More recently, he founded a venture capital firm, and he states that he 
intends to promote "smart tax" technology to provide a source of funding for various social programs. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally recognized awards, 
leading role for organizations having a distinguished reputation, and material about him in major 
media. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his achievements show sustained national or international 
acclaim, and refers to a nonprecedential decision by the AAO in another matter for comparison. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director's decision concerning the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We also conclude that even ifhe had met the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification, the Petitioner has not shown that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of entrepreneurs and financiers at the top of 
his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards.for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this evidentiary criterion, a petitioner must show that he is the recipient of an award, 
that that award was granted for excellence in his field of endeavor, and that it is nationally or 
internationally recognized within that field. The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding his receipt 
of these five awards: • □ university Distinguished Alumni Award, 2012 
2 
• Technology Innovation Award in Regulatory Sector 
2013 
• Innovative Leader of the Y ear, _____ Business Award, I 2014 
• Chambers of Commerce I I Award for Leadership in 
2016 
• ___ Hall of Fame,I 2019 
We first note that the Petitioner was not named as a recipient of the I I award, so it does 
not satisfy the first element of this criterion and therefore does not qualify. Moving on to the second 
element of this criterion, which requires that an award be for excellence in a petitioner's field of 
endeavor, the record includes only a single article regarding the alumni award from I University. 
This article was posted on the institution's website and indicates that the award is given to recognize 
graduates for "professional achievements, contributions to society and support of the university." As 
there is no mention of the award being given for excellence in business, it also does not qualify under 
this criterion. 
As for the other three awards, the Director initially indicated that these were not in the field of finance, 
and thus were not evidence ofrecognition for the Petitioner for excellence in his field. However, 
because the evidence indicates that all of them recognize achievements in the field of business, we 
disagree. The Director ultimately 
1concluded that because the I I award had received "some 
degree of media coverage i this award was sufficient to meet this criterion. But the evidence 
of that media coverage consists of a single article posted on the I I website which announced 
the Petitioner's upcoming receipt of the award. The record does not include further information about 
I lor the award, or aboutviewership of the I I website, or other evidence to show that 
the award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of business. 
The same is true about the evidence relating to the I I Business A ward and the I Hall 
of Fame. Regarding the latter award, the evidence consists only of material from the sponsoring 
organization, and therefore doesn't demonstrate that others in the field of business consider it to be 
prestigious or a recognition of excellence. Similarly, the evidence regarding the I I Business 
Award includes a press release froml _ and a short article on the website of the Miami 
Herald which reports on the sale of the business responsible for producing the award. While the 
materials regarding both awards describe them as attracting and recognizing business leaders from 
across the I region, this material is not supported by documentary evidence of, for 
example, business media coverage of the awards themselves, or other evidence that they are 
recognized in the field beyond the awarding entities. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion, and therefore withdraw that portion of the Director's decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. While we have concluded that the Petitioner has not met 
3 
the initial evidentiary requirement for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability, and thus need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, we 
will nonetheless consider the issue of the Petitioner's qualification under that standard, as it is the 
focus of both the Director's decision and the appeal. 
Because extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails 
a judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria 
alone. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394-395 (2022). The final merits determination is the 
ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as demonstrated by 
sustained national or international acclaim. Id. In this case, even if the Petitioner had met at least three 
of the evidentiary criteria, he has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner asse1is on appeal that his case is indistinguishable from that of another petitioner whose 
appeal we sustained.1 This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, without a review of the complete record in that case, we are unable to make a direct 
comparison with the evidence submitted by the Petitioner. However, we note that in that case, the 
decision indicates that the petitioner was the CEO of two companies, one of which had received a 
widely-known recognition by a major business publication, and another which had garnered media 
coverage. Here, there is little evidence concerning specifics of the Petitioner's role as a founder and 
chairman ofl land as noted by the Director, the recognition the company received appears to be 
in the form of a vanity award. And while the Petitioner mentions other companies which he has started 
and/or led, the record includes scant documentary evidence about these companies, their reputation in 
the field, or the Petitioner's role and accomplishments. We further note that much of the evidence that 
is in the record concerning his companies is in the form of biographies from his own website or those 
posted in relation to awards or speaking events. 
In addition, that non-precedent decision noted that the petitioner in that case had patents which had 
been shown to have made contributions of major significance in his field. Here, the Petitioner claimed 
that the previously-discussed awards were evidence of his contributions to the field of business, as 
were his speaking engagements at international economic forums. But as noted by the Director, 
neither of these types of evidence are direct evidence of contributions to his field, since neither were 
shown to be contributions in themselves. While the evidence of the Petitioner's speaking engagement 
at the ________ in I Switzerland and other economic conferences implies a certain 
level of recognition, it is unclear from the record whether he gained that recognition through his 
political activities as as opposed to his activities in the field of business. 
Notably, the Forbes article which briefly discusses his comments at the 20181 I 
do not mention any of his businesses but identify him only as _________ 
Also, the non-precedent decision pointed to several reference letters as corroborating the impact of 
that petitioner's original contributions to his field. In this matter, the Petitioner submitted a single 
letter from a professor at I University who worked with him as a foreign consultant 
1 2012 WL9160624 
4 
following the 201 0 ______ The writer briefly mentions! I but mainly focuses on the 
Petitioner's goals in leading the country's reconstruction efforts, concluding that "he was unable to 
complete his efforts in This letter fails to corroborate the Petitioner's claims of contributions 
in the field of business, and unlike the non-precedent decision, the record lacks testimony from other 
experts in his field. 
As to other evidence of his contributions to the field of business, we acknowled e the evidence of the 
Petitioner's role as co-chair of ________________________ 
in 2013. We note that the accompanying annual report names a different 
individual as co-chair, while also including photographs with captions noting the Petitioner's work 
with the council. In any event, the record shows that he played a leading role in the economic 
redevelopment efforts in through I and gained some level ofrecognition for those effmts. 
However, the record also includes derogatory evidence relating to this role, as noted by the Director 
in his decision, which the Petitioner does not address on appeal. The credible accusations ofcorruption 
cited in an update to another Forbes article datedl I 2019, and the Petitioner's resignation 
from his post _____ detract from any acclaim he achieved in that role. 
As stated above, section 203(b)(l) of the Act requires that a petitioner's acclaim and recognition in 
their field be demonstrated through extensive documentation. Here, the record falls short of providing 
the level of detail and supporting documentation needed to establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an 
alien of extraordinary ability in the field of business. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20619060 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neurosurgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a resident physician in neurosurgery at the University of I I He obtained his medical degree in2012 from the University of lin Brazil, 
is board certified by the Brazilian Society of Neurosurgery (SBN) and the Brazilian Academy of 
Neurosurgery (ABNc), and obtained a license as a physician and surgeon inc=] in 2020. The 
Petitioner states that he intends to continue to work as a neurosurgeon in the United States, as well as 
pursuing research and teaching goals. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others and his 
authorship of scholarly articles, and after review we agree with those conclusions. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he also meets five additional evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards.for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must show that any prizes or awards received by a petitioner were 
granted based upon excellence in the field of endeavor, and that they are recognized in the field at 1he 
national or international level. Here, the Petitioner submitted several certificates he earned, including 
four which were awarded by institutions he attended as part of his education and training. Letters 
from individuals associated with those institutions explain that candidates for those awards were 
limited to resident physicians and others within the respective institutions, and were based upon the 
Petitioner's performance as a resident physician. Such limitations on the candidates for those awards 
is a relevant factor in determining whether they were awarded for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manuaf F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. In 
addition, the record does not include evidence showing that these four awards were recognized by 1he 
2 
field in general or others in the field outside of those institutions. As such, we agree with the Director 
that the evidence does not establish that these four awards were awarded for excellence in the field 
and are nationally or internationally recognized within the field of neurosurgery. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he received another award from one of these institutions, 
which he refers to as an "Honor to Merit and Academic Excellence" award. However, the record does 
not include evidence from the awarding institution which verifies his receipt of this award. 
The remaining award claimed by the Petitioner in support of this criterion is the I I 2018" award from ABNc. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to three letters submitted by 
experts in the field of neurosurgery in support of the national or international recognition of this award. 
We first note that only one of these individualsJ lof thel I 
I lin Brazil, states that he is a member of ABNc, and he does not indicate that he has played any 
role in the awarding or administration of this award. In addition, despite his relationship with the 
awarding association, his letter does not provide any additional detail about the award than the other 
two letters. All three letters state only that the award is given to a neurosurgeon! I 
____ years of experience in the field, and is based upon contributions to the field over the 
past year. These statements are not supported by any rules, guidelines, or statements from an official 
of the ABN c. Further, the record does not include additional evidence beyond these letters to support 
the national or international recognition of this award in the field of neurosurgery. While we 
acknowledge the title of the award and its issuance by what appears to be one of two professional 
neurosurgery associations in Brazil, the record is insufficient to establish by a preponderance of the 
evidence that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he is a member of several professional associations, including 
ABNc and SBN, as well as the North American Skull Base Society (NASBS) and American 
Association of Neurological Surgeons. In his decision, the Director noted that associations with 
membership requirements such as employment in a certain occupation, a minimum level of education, 
training or experience, and paying annual dues do not require outstanding achievements of their 
members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to previously submitted evidence of the membership requirements of 
these associations. For example, he points to the membership requirements for full members of the 
ABNc, 1 which include practicing in the neurosurgery specialty, completing a residency, and 
submitting a curriculum vitae and recommendations from three current full members for review by 
the deliberative council. Similarly, NASBS requires its international members to have a doctorate 
1 Although the Petitioner refers to these as coming from the association's bylaws, the evidence appears to be simply a page 
on theABNc'swebsite. 
3 
degree, a qualification in the neurosurgery specialty, and to have engaged in practice with clinical 
experience and proficiency in a field related to skull base surgery. The application process requires a 
proposal from one voting member, approval by the Board of Directors and endorsement by a majority 
of voting members. All of the evidence submitted regarding the membership requirements of these 
associations show similar requirements, none of which the Petitioner has shown are unusual or go far 
beyond the minimum requirements for employment as a neurosurgeon. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the review process for each of these associations shows that they 
require outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts. However, the 
materials regarding most of these associations do not include any specific criteria used by existing 
members in the voting process, 2 and the Petitioner does not suggest that qualities such as ethics and 
moral character, mentioned in some of the membership requirements, are considered to be outstanding 
among neurosurgeons. Further, there is no evidence in the record regarding the national or 
international recognition of each of the voting members for these associations. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his membership in the neurosurgery residency program at the 
University o:tc=J qualifies under this criteria, but provides no evidence that the selection process 
required outstanding achievements or was judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Having reviewed the evidence submitted under this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes two articles, published on the websites jblittoral.com.br and 
revistasaudenews.com.br., both of which feature a photograph and information about the Petitioner 
and his work as a neorsurgeon. The Saude News article does not include the required author 
information, and appears to either have been written by the Petitioner or, as the Director suggested, is 
an advertisement for his practice. Since neither autobiographical materials nor marketing materials 
are generally considered to be about a petitioner, this evidence does not qualify under this criterion. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices. 
Turning to the JB Littoral article, it does have the required author, date and title information, but only 
the opening paragraph is in English, with the actual interview of the Petitioner in Portuguese. This 
material does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3)regardingtranslations of documents 
in a foreign language, and therefore cannot be considered. 
2 We note that a letterwas submitted from the President of ABNcwhich states that a reviewpanelofthree currentmembers 
considers factors such as "a prominent and distinguished career in the field, with significant contributions to the field of 
neurosurgery, and great potential for future contributions" and "substantially above average aptitude found in the field of 
neurosurgery." However, we note that none of these factors are reflected on the ABNc's webpage, and that despite his 
assertion the Petitioner did not submit the association's bylaws. 
4 
Also, while the Petitioner asserts that both of these websites are professional publications, the evidence 
does not support this conclusion. Considering the evidence in support of the Saude News article, while 
the website's own description states that it focuses on health, suggesting that it may be a professional 
publication as the Petitioner asserts, this includes a broader scope including "well-being, sport, 
citizenship, social projects, education, tourism, technological potentials in favor of public health, 
among others." It also indicates that physical copies are distributed to medical clinics, but also "gyms, 
shopping malls, beauty centers, beauty institutes, prominent restaurants." This evidence does not show 
that the magazine or its website is produced by professionals in the medical or neurosurgical fields, or 
that its intended audience is primarily medical professionals. In addition, the "domain review" 
evidence pertaining to the JB Littoral website provides no information about its focus or intended 
audience, and thus lends no support for the Petitioner's assertion that it is a professional publication. 
Therefore, we conclude that neither of these publications qualify as professional. 
Given the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scienttfic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates many of the same claims he made in his initial submission and in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), in several instances using identical language. 
He focuses on a handful of papers which he co-authored which were published in medical journals, 
and refers to reference letters which discuss the contributions made by the research that was published. 
We note that many of the authors of these letters indicate that they have never worked with the 
Petitioner and do not personally know him. 
One of the two articles co-authored by the Petitioner which were published in the Journal of 
Neurointerventional Surgery (JNIS) in 2019 concerns research on use of I in 
cerebrovascular surgery. Several of the reference letters initially submitted make brief statements that 
this research was the first to validate the use o in such surgeries. 3 For exampleJ I I I of the Universi of wrote that this research "has been fundamental as 
the first use of in neurointerventional treatments." Also,I I at the 
University o states this research "majorly impacted the field with a new 
groundbreaking use of as adjuvant in interventional treatment of cerebrovascular 
conditions." While both of these letters describe this research as an important contribution to the field, 
neither they nor other letters initially submitted explain how or why the use of I in these 
procedures was of major significance to the field. 
3 All reference letters in the record have beenreviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
In his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional letters, including a second 
letter from lnotes that this research was presented at the 2019 
International Stroke Conference, and describes the benefits of using in procedures for treating 
stroke. He also states that this has "changed the game for complex cerebrovascular cases," and has 
"improved the care for hundreds of thousands nationwide." However, another letter submitted with 
the RFE response, written by indicates that this research provides the field with 
"the possibility of usin-,__ in an effective and much safer way" than I and "will 
impact the field in an invaluable now and in many years to come." In order to meet this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that he has already made a contribution of major significance, not that his 
contribution has the potential to be of major significance in the future. None of the letters submitted 
indicate that the use of has been widely adopted or become standard practice in the field of 
neurosurgery, or even that its use has been adopted at the institutions where the letter writers practice. 
Fmiher, we note that the Petitioner and his co-authors concluded that their research "suggest(s) that I I is a promising alternative ... " and that "further studies with larger samples are required." 
While we acknowledge that medical research is collaborative and that researchers build upon the work 
of others, this evidence does not establish that the preliminary research conducted by the Petitioner 
has advanced the field of neurosurgery to the extent that it is of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asse1is that other original contributions he has made have been of major 
significance to the field of neurosurgery. Two published papers he co-authored in 2019, in JNIS and 
World Neurosurgery, focused on treatments for cerebral! I As with the I I research 
discussed above, the Petitioner focuses on statements in the reference letters in the record. I I who was one of his co-authors on the World Neurosurgerv article writes in his first letter 
that that review article "has set new parameters for current basis ofl treatment allowing new 
devices to be compared more easily ... ," noting that this "unquestionably helps healthcare providers in 
deciding which technology will be helpful or not." He expands upon the JNIS article in his second 
letter, stating that this paper showed that the I technique is "an important, safe and equivalent 
alternative to • , I I indicates that the techniques' 
importance lies in it being a cheaper alternative, but mentions this cost savings in prospective terms 
only . 
____ also discusses the impact of the World Neurosurgery article in his letter, which he states 
provides patients with hard data to compare the different types of treatments available for treating I I He goes on to state thatthe paper "will be long used whenever new devices and modalities 
arise" since it will serve as a comparative baseline. As we noted above, in order to meet this criterion 
the Petitioner must show that his contributions have already been of major significance. Here, he has 
not met that burden, since the reference letters he relies upon offer projections of future impact to the 
field. 
The Petitioner also refers to the number of citations to all of his published research on appeal, which 
according to his profile in Google Scholar numbered 80 with his initial filing and 111 at the time of 
his RFE response. But although the total number of citations to his work is one factor that would be 
appropriate to consider as a measure of his acclaim in a final merits determination, it is less relevant 
when focusing on specific contributions to his field. When looking at the individual papers discussed 
above, the evidence shows that two of the three were his most cited works, but this does not reflect 
their overall impact in the field of neurosurgery. The Petitioner correctly notes that the former 
6 
Adjudicator's Field Manual, now the USCIS Policy Manual, states that peer-reviewed articles that 
have "provoked widespread commentary" or have "entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index that cite the Person's work as authoritative in the field" are helpful in determining the 
significance of the person's contributions to their field. But it remains for a petitioner to submit 
evidence demonstrating that a certain total number or rate of citations constitutes a "goodly number" 
in a certain field, and that the work is cited as authoritative. In this case, the record lacks such 
documentary evidence. Some of the reference letters, such as the one submitted by I I I I state that achieving a total number of citations in the field of neurosurgery similar to the 
Petitioner's can take several decades, butthese statements are not supported by documentary evidence, 
and are not relevant in determining whether his original contributions have been of major significance. 
Upon reviewing the evidence described above, including the remaining reference letters, we conclude 
that it does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant imp01iance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
Appendices. 
The Director determined in his decision that the reference letters in the record were insufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role fo or 
for the University of I On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on what he asserts were leading roles for 
I land the 
Ac=] the evidence indicates that the Petitioner served as Leading Research Fellow from July to 
December of 2018, which included "guiding and leading the research team and fellows." I I I !Director of the I I states that during this six-month period the Petitioner "was able to 
successfully coordinate and integrate the research team with the clinical team." In another letter, he 
went into further detail, explaining that the Petitioner "implemented key meetings and tasks for each 
team member" and that he had the "final decision" regarding projects, schedules and research 
decisions. However, the letters do not explain the research team's position within the 
organization for which the Petitioner asserts he played a leading role, nor does the record include an 
organizational chart or similar evidence which would place the Leading Research Fellow position 
within the organization's overall hierarchy. While the letters show that the Petitioner played a leading 
role forl I research team, they do not show that it was leading for 
The record also indicates that at the Petitioner served as the Chief Resident of Neurosurgery 
during the 2017 academic year. I I Director and CEO of thel I explains that 
7 
the role typically includes organizational and administrative duties, but that the Petitioner also 
completed several projects during this time, such as developing and implementing a visiting physician 
referral system and developing a surgical training lab forresidents at As with the above evidence, 
this evidence does not explain the chief resident position in terms of its place in the overall hierarchy 
of and thus does not demonstrate that it was a leading role for the institute overall, which is the 
basis for the Petitioner's claim. 
In addition, the evidence concerning each of these organizations does not establish that they have a 
distinguished reputation. The materials concerning include only a short paragraph from the I !website stating that and a listing of 
accreditations forl I However, this self-promotional statement is not supported by 
documentary evidence of I reputation from other organizations in the field of neurosurgery, and 
the evidence does not sufficiently explain the relationship between! I accreditations and I I reputation in neurosurgery. 
Regarding I reputation, the Petitioner submitted what appears to be a press release posted on a 
Brazilian website which states that the institute was awarded "Best of the Year" in the health category 
by a Brazilian newspaper in the state of I This press release indicates that the award is voted 
on by the newspapers journalists, and is intended "to show and value the good personal and business 
initiatives developed in I It therefore does not show thatD has a distinguished reputation 
amongst similar institutions or in the overall field of neurosurgery. 
For all of the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l990);seealso section203(b)(1XA) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21035246 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant pathologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her Ph.D. in plant pathology from the University I I in 2006, and has 
focused her research in the _____________ tropical fruits including pineapples 
and bananas. She submitted evidence showing her intentto continue working in her field in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others. On appeal, she asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating 
to her original contributions of major significance to the field.1 After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested 
classification and is therefore not eligible as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
1 The Petitioner does not contesttheDirector's decision regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3)(ii) relating to her 
membership in associations in the field which require outstandingachievementoftheirmembers. We therefore consider 
this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristovv. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30,2011) (the cou1ifound the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The record shows that the Petitioner is named as one oOinventors on a United States patent, I granted in2014, relating to the development of a I lbanana plant. As noted by the Director in his decision, this evidence 
establishes that she has made an original contribution to her field of expertise. But the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) also demands that contributions be of major significance, which in the case 
of inventions should be supported by evidence of adoption by at least one industry actor outside of 1he 
petitioner's employer. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383 (2022)(citing Visinscaia, 4 F.Supp. 3d at 126.) 
In responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided evidence of the I land its effect upon the global banana industry, but 
stated that the patent was not in use due to "the cost associated with purchasing and using the patent 
and lack of acceptance by the general public." The Director noted this statement in his decision, 
concluding that "the potential significance of a contribution does not meet the plain language 
requirement of this criterion." 
On appeal, the Petitioner stresses that the atent is a "solution to to Banana crops" and 
"was proven scientifically to and is therefore of major 
significance even without evidence ofadoption or commercialization. However, she has not submitted 
evidence of any actual impact that this research has had on other researchers in her field or on the 
banana industry. The Petitioner also argues that the patent "took years of research and breakthroughs 
in but the evidence in the record does not support her claim that this work is 
considered to be a breakthrough by others in the field of plant pathology, or that it influenced or was 
relied upon by other researchers in the field. Although she submitted reference letters from colleagues 
at the University ofl I all of them predate her work related to the patent, and she did not present 
evidence that her patent generated widespread interest amongst other researchers. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) for the submission 
of evidence comparable to that contemplated in the evidentiary criteria "leaves open discretion if or 
when there are grey areas in determining eligibility for benefit sought," and that per that provision 
we may "treat the patent as a criterion." However, as noted above, that provision requires that the 
Petitioner establish that the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to 
his occupation. She does not make such a claim on appeal, and has already demonstrated by 
submitting her patent and other documentation in support of this criterion that it does apply to her 
occupation. As such, she has not established that her patent should be considered as comparable 
evidence of her eligibility for this classification. 
After review of the Petitioner's appeal and the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director and 
conclude that she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
3 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perf orming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above statedreasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12089918 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who states that she is a business executive in the fitness equipment industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, either 
through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or by submitting 
evidence that satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In conducting routine verification checks, we consulted the U.S. Department of State's Consolidated 
Consular Database (CCD). According to CCD records, the Petitioner applied for a B 1/B2 visa at the U.S. 
Consulate in Beijing in July 2015. She stated on her Form DS-160, Nonimmigrant Visa Application, that 
her occupation at that time was "homemaker" and that her most recent period of employment had ended 
in 2008. This information contradicts the Petitioner's clai} that she had been employed as the general 
manager of Chinese fitness equipment distributoJ ____ since at least 2010 and that she has a record 
of sustained acclaim as a business executive in the fitness equipment industry based on that employment. 
It also calls into question the (eliability I of much of the documentary evidence in the record which 
mentions her employment with 
Accordingly , as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i), we issued a notice of intent to dismiss in order 
to advise the Petitioner of the derogatory information and to provide her an opportunity for rebuttal. 
Routine service consists of mailing the notice by ordinary mail addressed to the affected party and his 
or her attorney or representative of record at his or her last known address. 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(a)(l)(i) . 
Petitioners who have filed an application or petition with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) but have not yet received a decision ( a "pending" case) should notify USCIS of any change 
of address as soon as possible after moving. We sent the NOID to the Petitioner at the address she 
provided on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. The notice was returned as undeliverable. 
The post office indicated that there was no forwarding address. A review of USCIS systems indicates 
that the Petitioner did not provide a new address to USCIS after filing the appeal. 
A benefit request may be denied as abandoned, denied based on the record, or denied for both reasons 
if a petitioner does not respond to a request for evidence or a notice of intent to deny by the required 
date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l3)(i). Therefore, we will dismiss the appeal as abandoned based on the 
Petitioner's failure to respond to the properly issued notice of intent to dismiss. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed as abandoned under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l3). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20930606 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jazz percussionist and music instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l l 53(b)(lXA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that 
he has national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a percussionist who has perfonned with the banJ I for several years and has 
been involved with music festivals in his native Georgia. He states that he intends to continue to 
perform and record as a jazz percussionist in the United States while also instructing other 
percussionists. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him, his participation as a 
judge of the work of others, and the display of his work at artistic showcases. We agree that the 
Petitioner has met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
When conducting a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. 
In his final merits determination, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established his 
national or international acclaim and that he was one of the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. He also concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted clear evidence that he was coming to 
the United States to work in his field of expertise per the requirement at section 203(b )(1 )(ii) of the 
Act, and that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his final merits determination and did not consider the 
entirety of the record. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that the Director 
failed to consider the totality of the evidence in his final merits dete1mination, focusing instead only 
2 
on evidence submitted in support of qualifying criteria. We will therefore review the record de nova 
and consider whether the entirety of the record demonstrates the Petitioner's eligibility as a person of 
extraordinary ability. 
As noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence of an article about him and his 
work as a drummer which was published on the website of the Georgian version o~ I magazine 
in 2020. The aiiicle describes his career across different musical genres and his plans for work(ng inl 
the United States. Also submitted were rher pulblished materials, including a biography of §the singer who performs with on the web re of audio eauinment manufacturer 
presumably as a sponsored artist), and a review of I album 
blished on the website www.pennyblackmusic.com.uk. While the Petitioner is mentioned 
as the drummer f 011 fin these articles, their main focus is on the perfomiance ofl I 
and they do not single out the Petitioner for his expertise or skill as a percussionist as they do for her 
as a singer. We note that the Petitioner criticizes the Director's analyses of this evidence, arguing that 
the INA' s requirement of "extensive documentation" in support of this classification is not merely a 
numerical standard but also one of quality. USCIS policy is clear in stating that both the quantity and 
quality of evidence in the record is considered in the final merits determination. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(2). But the Petitioner has not shown that aiiicles that merely mention his name and 
are published on websites about which no information is provided are of sufficient quality to suppmt 
his claim of eligibility. 
Another item discussed in the Director's decision but not in the final merits determination was his 
receipt of an award, the I 12018" for "Best Drummer." The evidence of this award 
includes a certificate, identifying the awarding organization asl lin II Russia and a photograph of a statuette with an ille "ble la ue. A letter frortj I 
c===]who names himself as the General Director Company, describes the 
genesis of a music award related to thel I Club in~--~ hich he states the Petitionerreceived 
in 2018, but he does not name the title of the award or the award cate ory, nor does he claim to have 
any relationship with the.__ ___________ ___, o,rL-----'" .................................................................... ........_,,e from 
the website www.minikult.com presents a description of theL....r----------,. ____ ___Jand its 
relationship withl I Club but makes no mention of the~-----~or any other award. 
This evidence casts doubt upon the Petitioner's receipt of the claimed award, and even ifhe did receive 
it, does not indicate that it represents acclaim for his musicianship beyond a single music club. 
also wrote an additional letter in which he claims that I I published 6 
albums for.__ ________ ~..,...........and "held more than 700 concerts in Russia" from 2006 to 
201 7. He provides a list of royalties for the Petitioner for each of these albums, ranging from $30,000 
to $40,000, and also states that in concert performances from 2013 to 201 7, he earned between $65,000 
and $90,000peryear. As the record is otherwise absent of anyinformationregardingl I 
orl I let alone his first-hand knowledge of the Petitioner's earnings, this information is 
insufficient to demonstrate the level of the Petitioner's earnings. While the evidence also includes 
copies of four agreements between the Petitioner and the I I in 
2018 and 2019 for concerts in which the Petitioner was to have been paid between $1800 and $2200, 
this evidence does not show his total earnings over a specific period of time. Further, without evidence 
which puts the Petitioner's earnings in context with that of other musicians, the record does not 
demonstrate that his earnings are indicative of acclaim orputhim among the few at the top of his field. 
3 
Additional reference letters in the record include one written byl I Art~ctor 
of th~ I Theater. He states that he met the Petitioner in 2007 at theL___JJazz 
Festival, where he "performedatth...._~----.....a+--~--___.describes tw · · 
he collaborated with the Petitioner: th....._..-----,-........,........Jfilm award presenta~t_io_n....,_a_n_d ________ ~ 
as part of the World Economic Forum i ~-~ Switzerland. Although~----~ makes clear 
that the Petitioner performed as a drummer at these events, the role he played beyond that is vaguely 
described. For instance, forthel laward he states that he collaborated with the Petitioner 
"on linking effectively various musicians, singers, songwriters, lyricists, composers, and their fan­
bases together, which enabled us to successfully work toward a common production goal." In addition, 
neither description specifies when these collaborations happened, or whether they happened more than 
once. Reference letters such as this which lack details and make general and expansive statements 
about a petitioner's accomplishments, and are not supported by documentary evidence, are not 
persuasive. See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
Two more reference letters describe the Petitioner's role in music festivals. I I 
Director of th~ I states that the Petitioner has been involved with thd I Festival 
in Georgia since 2004, helping to identify those who have preserved Georgian folk music and bringing 
the music to the attention of a national audience. I I also writes that the Petitioner has 
created the music which accompanies the Festival's advertisements aired in Georgia and abroad, and 
has voluntarily provided music instruction for underprivileged children. In addition, the record 
includes a certificate given to the Petitioner by I I in 2019 "for his outstanding 
contribution to the development of the festival." 
Similarly J I of the I I Jazz Festival in Russia states that from 2004 to 2020, the 
Petitioner participated in the festival as a drummer as well as an event planer and artist relations 
coordinator. She explains that in these roles, he helped the festival gain media exposure and secured 
master classes and jam sessions for the festival. As with I I letter, the information 
about the festivals described in these letters, such as their attendance and importance in the world of 
music, is not supported by documentary evidence in the record. Although they indicate that the 
Petitioner's participation in them has been important to the festival organizers, they do not establish 
that it has led to national or international acclaim for him. 
The totality of the evidence, including reference letters, website information, contracts, photographs 
and others, shows that the Petitioner's work as a percussionist has been displayed at many live 
performances over his career, most notably with I I The evidence indicates 
that these performances have occurred primarily in Georgia and Russia, but also in neighboring 
countries and in the United States. However, the record does not show that these performances have 
been noted in media, received critical acclaim, resulted in commercial success, or otherwise garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim for the Petitioner. Although the number and period over 
which these performances have taken place indicate that he has had a long and active career as a 
percussionist, the act of performing is inherent to the musical profession, and the record does not 
demonstrate that either the quantity or quality of these performances place the Petitioner as one of the 
very few at the top of this field. 
4 
Finally, as noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner has submitted evidence of having served as ~ of other drummers for a single event, the 2011~ _______ ____. which took place in 
L__Jin 2011. The record indicates that this was a student drumming competition, with the focus on 
using items found in a classroom instead of traditional instruments, and culminated in an international 
tournament in Brazil. As with the evidence relating to his media attention, the Petitioner has not shown 
that a single instance of evaluating the performance of non-professionals reflects sustained acclaim at 
the national or international level or elevates his standing as one of few top percussionists in his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a ''career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. Coming to Work and Substantial Prospective Benefit 
In addition to concluding that the Petitioner had not established his sustained national or international 
acclaim as a jazz percussionist and instructor, the Director also determined that he had not established 
that he is coming to the United States to continue working in his field, or that his presence would 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. As the Petitioner has not established his 
sustained national or international acclaim or standing as one of the few at the top of his field, and thus 
is not eligible for the requested classification, we reserve these issues. 1 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21218536 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a transplant surgeon, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner studied medicine at the I I Institute of Medical Sciences from 2003 to 2012, and his 
training included fellowships at the University of from 2012 to 2014 and the University of I lfrom2014to 2016. The Petitioner worked as a clinical instructor atl I 
University from2016 to 2018, and as an assistant professor at University Hospitals in I 
from 2018 to 2020. Since 2020, the Petitioner has been an assistant professor at the University of I 
Medical Center I I as an H-lB nonimmigrant in a specialty occupation.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x ). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pe1iaining to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that he also meets the 
other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only the two 
criteria granted previously. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 We note that the Petitioner previously filed anotherimmigrant petition on his own behalf, with receipt number 
on September 7, 20 I 7. Under that petition, the Petitioner sought a different classification, with different 
eligibility requirements, as a memberoftheprofessionsholdinganadvanceddegree, with a nationalinterestwaiverofthe 
job offer requirement under section 203(b)(2)(B)(ii). That petition was approved on April 13, 2018, and the approval 
remains in effect. 
2 
The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion as a fellow of the American College of Surgeons 
(ACS), as a member of Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society þÿ (‘©‘ ) ,  and as a member of Sigma 
Xi, the Scientific Research Honor Society þÿ (£ž ) .  
A petitionermustmeetalleligibilityrequirements at the timeoffilingthe petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(bX1). 
His acceptance letters from þÿ‘©‘  and þÿ£ž  are both dated November 2021, two months after the filing date 
in September 2021. Furthermore, the record does not show that these memberships meet the regulatory 
requirements. The petitioner "must show that membership in the associations is based on the person 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis. 
gov /po licymanual. 
Both organizations admit students into membership, and the submitted materials do not show that 
recognized national or international experts judge the achievements of prospective members. þÿ£ž  
membership is available to researchers who show "primary authorship of two papers," and"[ a ]n earned 
doctoral degree may be substituted for one paper." þÿ‘©‘  elects members at the local chapter level. 
Neither admission standard reflects that it would meet the criterion. 
The Petitioner joined the ACS as a fellow (synonymous, here, with "member") in 2020, before he filed 
the petition. The record includes a printout from the ACS's website, indicating that fellows are chosen 
based on "rigorous evaluation" of their "education and training professional qualifications, surgical 
competence, and ethical conduct." These factors do not rise to the level of outstanding achievements. 
The ACS' s bylaws, also in the record, describe a higher level of membership, "Honorary Fellowship," 
which is limited to "individuals who (a) possess an international reputation in the field of surgery or 
medicine, or (b) have rendered distinguished humanitarian services." The Petitioner 's membership 
documents indicate that he is a fellow, not an honorary fellow. 
The Petitioner has not established that the named associations require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts, for the level of membership that the Petitioner 
holds in those associations. Therefore, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3)(v) . 
The Petitioner states that his "innovative research ... has led to important advances in [his] vital surgical 
subspecialty and has improved access to transplant surgeries for patients," and "impacted the way 
physicians approach the use of clinical and surgical advancements ... in their efforts to responsibly treat 
patients suffering from chronic and acute conditions." 
The USCIS Policy Manual provides guidelines for evaluating evidence and information relating to the 
significance of an individual's contributions: 
[P]eer-reviewed presentationsatacademicsymposiaorpeer-reviewedarticlesin scholarly 
journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite 
3 
the person's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the 
person's contributions to the field of endeavor . 
. . . [E]xperts in the field may provide [probative analysis] in opinion letters regarding the 
significance of the person's contributions in order to assist in giving an assessment of the 
person's original contributions of major significance. That said, not all expe1i letters 
provide such analysis. Letters that specifically articulate how the person's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 
6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner did not provide citation figures for his published work. Instead, he has submitted Altmetric 
profiles for five of his articles. These profiles include "Attention Scores" that rank the articles against 
"all research outputs," "outputs of the same age," and "outputs of the same age and source." The profiles 
do not appear to rank the response to the Petitioner's work in relation to other articles in the same field of 
research. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that these profiles show that his original 
contributions have major significance in the field. If the Petitioner contends that citations are not a reliable 
indicator of that significance, then the burden remains on him to establish significance and the major 
significance of his contributions by other means. 
Screen captures show that various physicians, organizations, and publications have tweeted links to 
articles by the Petitioner, but the Petitioner has not shown that only contributions of major significance 
are mentioned on social media in this way. 
The Petitioner also submitted copies of brief, similarly-worded articles from Medlndia.net, News­
Medical.net, and MedicalExpress.com, reporting the publication of a scholarly article of which the 
Petitioner was one of nine co-authors. The articles all derive from a press release from the journal's 
publisher, and quote the lead author of the article. The Petitioner's name is not mentioned. As with the 
tweets discussed above, the text of the articles does not indicate that the information reported is of major 
significance, and the Petitioner has not shown that this type of coverage is limited to contributions of 
major significance. 
The Petitioner relies primarily on letters from others in his field, who discuss articles that the Petitioner 
wrote or co-wrote. To varying degrees, the descriptions of the Petitioner's articles essentiall ara hrase 
the abstracts of those articles. For exam le, the abstract for 
published in Clinical Transplantation, 
reads in part: 
Short-and Ion -term outcomes were compared between contemporaneous I 
and donors .... Baseline estimated! was 
lower in ... Intraoperative and postoperative complications were similar, 
except a higher prevalence of <30 dayl I . and longer postoperative length of stay. 
After >20 years post-DN, systolic blood pressure was significantly higher among ____ .. and was diagnosed earlier. ... After donation, was 
4 
significantly lower fo I but slope ofl land rates ofl 
I I were not significantly different >20 years post-DN. Thus, 
donation among carefully selected poses minimal perioperative risks and 
no added risk oflong-tentj I 
A letter from the director of the Center for at the Clinic reads, in part: 
[The Petitioner] and his co-researchers examine the short-and long-term outcomes of 
contemporaneous [The Petitioner] and his team 
found a similarincidence of intraoperative and postoperative complications in both groups 
but did discover an increase in hospital stay and incidence of in the donors 
years of age. They also uncovered a higher incidence ofhype1iension in donors and 
found that onors became hypertensive earlier after donation. The study also found 
that the I was also lower in the donor cohort, but 
there was no significant difference in the rates of progression tol I I I after following these donors for over 20 years after donation. This study was 
particularly unique and noteworthy in the transplant community because it followed the 
donor cohorts forover20 years, allowing researchers and surgeons to assess thelong-tenn 
impacts of donation. Based on these observations, [the Petitioner] concluded that 
with the increasing demand fon I transplants, that if carefully selected, donors 
years of age post minimal perioperative risks and no added risk of I 
disease, thus allowing donors to serve as viable I donors. 
The above description repeats the information from the abstract, using less technical language, but does 
not explain why the article is of major significance in the field. The study may have been the first, or 
among the first, to follow this specific donor cohort over a long period of time, but the Petitioner has not 
shown how this information has affected his field. As noted above, "Letters that specifically articulate 
how the person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work 
add value." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner asserts that his article is 
significant because it "increas[ es] available organs by expanding thee=]criteria of donors," but he 
submits no evidence that any such expansion has actually occurred, which might establish the major 
significance of the contribution. Rather, his article indicates that individuals I I have been 
donating! for more than 20 years and that have become 
more common." The Petitioner does not show that the study is, itself, an original contribution of major 
significance. 
Furthermore, similarities in wording are consistent with common authorship of the letters. Describing 
another Clinical Transplantation article, the !Clinic official states: 
__________________ are rare complications that are 
difficult to diagnose and manage. Patients with these complications can bleed to death if 
not intervened in a timely manner. . . . [The Petitioner] discusses how the man a ement 
of such complications has changed over different eras from rimaril eras from primary 
now by I or lesions. 
Based on his experience, he also suggests that I I the lesion is better than I in most cases because of the higher risk of 
5 
A letter from the division chief of transplant surgery at the University of ___ Medical Center 
includes a very similar passage: 
and I lare rare complications that are 
difficult to diagnose and manage. Patients with these complications can bleed to death if 
not intervened in a timely manner. In this case series, [the Petitioner] discusses how to 
manage these com lications, how the techni ues used have changed over different eras 
from rimaril management now by I I 
lesions. [The Petitioner], through actual clinical experience, 
also suggests thad I is better than in most cases because of 
the higher risk of 
The first three sentences quoted above also appear in a letter from a professor at the University of I 2 2 Very similar wording also appears in a letter from a professor atl I University: 
These are rare complications that are difficult to diagnose and manage, and patients with 
these complications can bleed to death if intervention is not provided in a timely manner. 
In this study, [the Petitioner] also discusses how the management of such complications 
has changed over different eras from rimaril 
management by lesions. From ex erience, [the 
Petitioner also provides clinical advice, suggesting that is better than 
in most cases because of the higher risk o ____ 
The letters describe the Petitioner's published work, but they do not establish its major significance in the 
field. Sometimes the letters summarize the publications without comment, and at other times there are 
brief comments using phrases such as "of particular importance," "of great interest," and "extremely 
educational and useful," and such assessments are insufficient to establish the importance of the 
contribution. Some letters attest that the Petitioner's work has had a significant impact on the field, but 
off er no specific corroboration for such claims. With little or no further elaboration, such statements do 
not suffice to establish that the Petitioner's original contributions have been not only useful, helpful, or 
interesting, but of major significance as the criterion requires. 
A number of the letters describing the Petitioner's published work also do not demonstrate the original 
nature of the Petitioner's contributions. For example, a letter indicates that one of the Petitioner's articles 
"supported the proposed policy of requiring at least six weeks of I dysfunction for a 
candidate to be qualified for a simultaneous! I tt·ansplant." Based on this statement, it appears 
that the policy had already been proposed. It is entirely proper for such recommendations to rely on 
empirical evidence gathered from studies such as the Petitioner's, but it appears that the original, 
significant contribution lies in the proposal itself rather than in one of an unknown number of studies 
supporting that proposal. For another example, the Petitioner has transplanted! from I I 
2 The similar, at times identical, language in the submitted letters undermines their probative value, because the shared 
language "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into question the persuasive value of the 
letters' content." Hamalv. US.Dcp 'tofHomcland Sccurity,No.19-2534, slip op. at 8,n.3 (D.D.C.June 8,2021). 
6 
I donors intd !recipients. Letters in the record state that this practice increases 
the supply of donor I but the record does not show that the practice began with the Petitioner; 
rather, he was the first surgeon to employ the practice in I This, however, does not 
demonstrate the original nature, or significance of the practice to the field as a whole. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that his original contributions have major 
significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to satisfy this criterion through his roles at land the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons (ASTS). The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown his 
roles with those organizations to be leading or critical. On appeal, the Petitioner only addresses his mle 
atl I We consider his earlier claims regarding the ASTS to be abandoned. 3 
The chief medical officer of I I stated that the Petitioner has a leading role "as the Director of 
__ Transplantation." The petitioner must establish that "the department or division for which the 
person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner does not show that I I transplantation program has 
a distinguished reputation in its own right as required. 
The chief medical officer also described the Petitioner's duties in "patient care," "teaching," and 
"research." These responsibilities appear to be routine for medical school faculty members, although 
specific duties will vary from person to person, and do not demonstrate a leading or critical role. 
For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. The Petitioner has not established that his work atl lmeets this high standard. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the chairman of 
Department of Urology, indicating that the Petitioner is a "representative of the Faculty Senate where he 
serves diligently on our COMLS Faculty Council." The letter is dated two months after the petition's 
filing date and does not indicate when the Petitioner began serving in this capacity. The Petitioner's own 
curriculum vitae, submitted atthe time of filing, did not list this position. Therefore, there is no evidence 
that the Petitioner served on the Faculty Senate at the time he filed the petition, as required by 8 C.F.R 
§ I 03 .2(b )(1 ). As a result, we need not consider the question of whether that appointment constitutes 
either a leading or critical role. 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
7 
The Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner states that his $350,000 annual salary froml I meets this criteria. In support of this 
assertion, the Petitioner cited data from the U.S. Department of Labor. The data relates to "Surgeons, 
Except Ophthalmologists" nationally, in Ohio, and in the I I area, both generally and in the 
"Education Indus try." Average yearly figures range from $148,158 to $277,510. 
The Director requested salary evidence specific to transplant surgeons, the Petitioner's claimed field. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted third-party survey data revealing a number of disparate salary ranges. 
Salary.com indicates the salary range for transplant surgeons in is is $212,731 to $303,446. 
Ziprecrniter. com provides a much wider range for transplant surgeons in fmm $24,266 to $409,473. 
Ziprecrniter also shows significant variations from city to city in and from one specialty to another. 
Therefore, these divergent and inconsistent figures would not fully establish salary in relation to others in 
the field. 
The Petitioner submitted salary data for surgeons at the University of land the University of I 4 The Petitioner does not establish that these figures are representative of the field. 
Furthermore, the data froml I shows that the individuals are paid separately for different 
responsibilities. One surgeon's total compensation of $350,000 per year includes $50,000 as a section 
chief, $60,000 as a professor, and $105,000 as a physician surgeon; the submitted table does not account 
for the remaining $135,000 per year. The Petitioner does not show whether his own salary is divided in 
this manner. If the Petitioner's non-surgical responsibilities, such as teaching duties, augment his income, 
then it would be more appropriate either to compare the Petitioner's total compensation with that of other 
transplant surgeons with comparable duties, or to consider only that portion of his salary that pe1iains 
directly to his work as a surgeon. 
The evidence submitted by the Petitioner does not establish that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field of transplant surgery. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
4 Even if comparison within individual institutions were an appropriatemeasure, the Petitioner does not submit such data 
forothertransplantsurgeonsatL___Jwhichmightprovidea usefulcomparison. 
8 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has satisfied 
the letter of two regulatory criteria, but the nature of these criteria is such that many researchers can 
satisfy them even though they have not earned sustained national or international acclaim. Publication 
of research results, and peer-reviewing the research of others, are common factors in academia, rather 
than necessarily establishing sustained national or international acclaim at the top of the field. The 
Petitioner has not shown that his work demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
dismiss the appeal for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20245185 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 23, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art curator with a degree in architecture, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a degree in architecture from the National University 
Argentina, in 1997 and established her own architectural studio in that country, while also serving for 
ten years onl I faculty. The Petitioner entered the United States in 2014 as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor, and later changed her status to that of an F-1 nonimmigrant student. Since movingtol I 
Texas, she has started two businesses, specifically an art gallery and a company that makes fashion 
accessories. The record contains a two-year job offer, which the Petitioner accepted, for employment 
as a curator with a I art gallery. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, pertaining to display at artistic 
exhibitions. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets all six claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
pertaining to display. We further conclude that she has submitted sufficient evidence to show that she 
participated as a judge of the work of others.1 We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 Letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner served on a jury at the Municipal Museum of Art I and ona 
jury to select works for an exhibition mounted in tribute to a former professor. The Director determined that the 
submitted evidence "does not show that the beneficiary's contributions involved reviewing any work or otherwise acting 
as a judge of the work of others." We disagree. The letters, on their face, describe judging activity. Issues such as "the 
criteria for participation ... as judge" and the significance and scope of the events where the Petitioner served as a judge 
would have been relevant in the final merits determination, if the proceeding had advanced to that stage, but they do not 
affect the threshold question of whether she served as a judge of the work of others. Because the Petitioner's work 
described above establishes that she participated as a judge of the work of others, we need not address the Petitioner's 
assertion thatherwork as a curatoralsoentailsjudgingthe work ofothers. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner was a recipient of the Prize at thel I International Biennial of Architecture 
in 1991. The Director determined that the award was regional rather than national or international. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her prior assertion that the I I Biennial "is one of the most 
important architectural events inl showing the workof"prominent figuresofinternational 
architecture" from around the world. The regulation requires that the prize or award itself is nationally 
or internationally recognized; the Petitioner cannot meet her burden of proof solely based on the 
reputation of the awarding entity, or of the event where the award was presented. The Petitioner has 
submitted background materials about the Biennial but these documents do not mention the Prize. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the Prize is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted an article about the Petitioner's construction of architectural models 
from thel 12009 issue ofDeco &Arquitectura. The Petitioner asserts that "Deco & Arquitectura 
is a major Argentine trade publication," but cites no evidence to support this assertion. 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted another article, from the Spanish 
online publicationLa Cara Buena del Mundo, profiling the Petitioner's U.S. company that makes fashion 
accessories using I obtained from an interior decorating firm. First, we note that 
the article is dated I eight days after the petition's filing date. The Petitioner must meet 
all eligibility requirements as of the petition's filing date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, the Petitioner must "establish thatthe circulation( onlineor in print) orviewership is high compared 
to other statistics." 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/po1icymanua1. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit circulation data for either publication. On appeal, 
the Petitioner acknowledges that she did not provide circulation data, but she contends that this "does not 
mean that [ each publication] is not a major trade publication." The Petitioner asserts: "These publications 
are intended to be read by individuals within the art, design, and architecture industry, which publish 
articles that are related to that field. Thus, establishing that these publications are considered major trade 
publications." The specialized subject matter shows that Deco & Arquitectura is a trade publication, but 
not every trade publication is a major trade publication. The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that 
the publications qualify as "major"; there is no presumption that every trade publication is a major trade 
publication. Here, the Petitioner has not established thatDeco &Arquitecturais a major trade publication. 
The Petitioner has also not submitted evidence to support her claim that La Cara Buena del Mundo is a 
trade publication "intended to be read by individuals within the art, design, and architecture industry"; the 
Petitioner has not submitted information about the publication's content apart from the one submitted 
article. But the larger point is that the Petitioner has not established that La Cara Buena del Mundo 
qualifies as a major trade publication or other major media. 
3 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that she performed in a leading role for her own 
architectural studio that she had operated in Argentina. Because the Petitioner founded and ran the 
business, we agree with the Petitioner that she had a leading role with that studio. But she must also 
establish that the studio has a distinguished reputation, defined as marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence or befitting an eminent person. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asserts that her studio's distinguished reputation is evident from its "prestigious and 
renowned clients." The identification of some of the studio's clients, however, does not establish that the 
Petitioner's firm has a distinguished reputation in the absence of fmiher documentation. The record does 
not establish how and why those clients came to choose the Petitioner's studio, nor does it provide 
information about the projects the studio undertook for those clients. 
We note that one of the claimed clients is, itself, an architectural design firm. The Petitioner submitted 
printouts from that firm's website, indicating that the architectural design firm has won more than 20 
awards and honorable mentions "in national and international competitions." The Petitioner has not 
established that her own studio has earned similar accolades. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signtficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from an accountant, indicating that the Petitioner earned over 
Arg$50,000 per year, whereas "[t]he income of other artists did not exceed ... $22,000.00 per year." The 
letter cites no sources and includes no supporting evidence. The English translation of the letter refers to 
the Petitioner as an "architect-artist" ("arguitecta-artista" in the original Spanish) while comparing her 
earnings to "[t]he income of other artists" ("artistas")rather than other "architect-artists." 
The Director determined that "the record does not contain evidence of the beneficiary's salary and 
remuneration," and that the Petitioner did not submit data to allow a comparison of the Petitioner's 
earnings to those of others in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes the figures from the accountant's 
letter, but these figures do not directly document the Petitioner's income; specify the services that the 
Petitioner performed; identify any source for the claimed average income of "other artists"; or show that 
the comparative figures relate to individuals performing similar work to that of the Petitioner. We agree 
with the Director that the letter does not provide enough information to make the comparison that the 
regulatory language demands. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The submitted evidence 
depicts a largely local reputation, first inl land later in 
Furthermore, we note that some of the Petitioner's evidence concerns her work in architecture, and 
other evidence relates to her work as an art curator, while a small amount of material in the record 
addresses her work making fashion accessories. While the Petitioner refers to herself as a "visual 
artist," it is not apparent that the use of this umbrella term is sufficient to place all her different 
endeavors into one identifiable, collective "field." This is particularly relevant in the context of the 
Petitioner's architectural work, which appears to have ended when she left Argentina in 2014. The 
Petitioner must establish that she seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
claimed extraordinary ability. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. The Petitioner relies heavily on 
her architectural work in her claims to have satisfied several criteria, such as those relating to prizes 
and a leading or critical role. The Petitioner's business ventures during seven years in the United 
States have not involved architecture, but rather working as an art curator, and making fashion 
accessories, and therefore she has not shown that she intends to continue working in the field of 
architecture. As a result, any recognition she may have previously earned as an architect is of 
peripheral relevance to her intended work as an art curator and creator of fashion accessories. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21539608 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a doctoral student and teaching assistant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(1XA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or 
showing that he received a major, internationally-recognized award. The Petitioner appealed the 
Director's decision. Upon review, we concluded that although he had met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, he still had not established that he met the initial evidence requirement. The Petitioner now 
submits combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a doctoral student and teaching assistant at the University! I I I and has stated that he intends to pursue a teaching career at this or another institution. He holds 
a Master of Science degree in mathematics from and another from the I I 
University ofl I 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). 
In first addressing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) relating to judging the work of others in 
his field. the Petitioner asserts that we erred in finding that his participation in the I I "does not constitute a formal judging of the work of others." However, 
our appeal decision did not use the term "formal judging" in its analysis under this criterion, and the 
Petitioner appears to have confused our decision with the Director's, which is not at issue on motion. 
The Petitioner also cites to a statement in one of our non-precedent decisions concerning a different 
individual which notes that this criterion "is broad enough to encompass a wide range of activities that 
involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, sustained 
acclaim in the field." This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS 
officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the 
record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. In addition, the cited 
language from that decision appeared as part of a final merits determination and was meant to highlight 
the difference between evidence which qualifies under this criterion and that which helps to establish a 
petitioner's national or international acclaim. While we agree that a broad range of activities may qualify 
as judging the work of others in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), it remains the Petitioner's 
burden to establish that he participated in a qualifying activity. 
In another statement regarding this criterion, the Petitioner asserts that our previous decision was incorrect 
in stating that the record does not include mention of the evaluation panels which he described as being 
part of thel I project. Our decision stated that the only mention of the evaluatio
1n panels and the 
Petitioner's involvement with them was made by the Petitioner, and that neither the website 
information or the letter from I I mentioned the panels at all, let alone his participation as a 
member. Although the Petitioner asserts that this statement was wrong, he does not point to specific 
evidence in the record where that information may be found. 
2 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner states that due to the nature of his research in the area ofl I I he is unable to submitevidenceofpatents, usage or implementation, but points to two reference 
letters which were submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). The first of these 
is froml la professor atthel University I I He states that while he hasn't interacted directly with the Petitioner, he and his colleagues 
cited to one of the Petitioner's articles published in 2016 and used his results in their own work. I I also briefly describes a 2014 paper that the Petitioner which covered 
the use ofl lmodels in makingl I forecasts at the I I level, noting that the 
Petitioner contributed mathematical models to this work. But he does not indicate that the Petitioner's 
contribution to this paper was an original contribution to the overall field of mathematics, nor does he 
provide any indication of its significance to the field. 
The other reference letter was written by of thel I Institute of physics 
and Technology. He begins by discussing the Petitioner's academic excellence and erformance as a 
teacher, but does not indicate that he made an original contribution in the latter field. 
then describes a lecture given by the Petitioner at a scientific conference in 2008 that conceme I lwhich he indicates "was warmly appreciate by the audience." He goes on name others eminars 
at which the Petitioner spoke, provides a list of mathematics professors that he states have "recognized 
and praised" the Petitioner (some of whom also submitted reference letters), and states that the Petitioner 
has published more than 20 papers, many of which he claims have been highly cited. However, while he 
indicates that many of the Petitioner's presentations and publications were well received, he also does not 
identify an original contribution made to the field by the Petitioner, and his assertions regarding the 
widespread citation of this work is not suppmied in the record. 
The Petitioner also references evidence of his participation in mathematical symposiums and conferences 
as supporting the importance of his research. However, we will not assume that every presentation made 
at a symposium or conference, even a prestigious one, constitutes a contribution of major significance. 
Rather, it is the documented impact such presentations have made which determines their significance to 
the field. "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013). For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in 
the field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his presentations contributed to the field to the extent 
that they were of major significance. 
After review of the Petitioner's brief and the previously submitted evidence he references, we find that 
he has not shown that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that it 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time. We will therefore dismiss 
his motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .5 ( a )(2). The Petitioner submitted two additional documents in support of his motion, one each 
relating to the evidentiary criteria discussed above. Pertaining to his participation as a judge of the 
3 
work of others, he presents a new letter from Organizer. Much of his letter 
is taken directly from the previously-submitted webpage for the but he does confirm the 
Petitioner's participation as a mentor in the program for 8 quarters spanning three years. The letter 
states that in this role the Petitioner has overseen and guided students through reading projects, and 
provided weekly feedback and assessments. As with the previous evidence, it does not indicate that 
he has participated in judging the students' presentations at the end of the quarter, or that the judging 
of these presentations is part of the role of mentors in the I !program. Accordingly, this new 
evidence does not establish that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As for the criterion relating to original contributions of major significance, the Petitioner asserts that 
his role in a project funded by the U.S. Army is both original and of major significance, and submits 
a document entitled "Report Documentation Page." However, this document neither lists the 
Petitioner as an "author" nor shows how this work is of major significance. The Petitioner has not 
established that the fact that a project to which he has contributed has been funded by the U.S. 
government leads to the conclusion that the research has already been of major significance to his 
field. Again, we look to the effect this work may have had on the work of other researchers in the 
field, and this new evidence does not provide such information. 
Because the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that he meets these evidentiary 
criteria, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21404197 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I competitor and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility 
for the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is al I competitor and coach who has competed in numerous national and 
international competitions . He intends to enter the United States to work as al I coach. 
Because the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria; namely, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner received lesser nationally and internationally 
recognized awards for excellence and judged the work of others in his field. Accordingly , we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner met these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five additional criteria, either directly or through 
comparable evidence . After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the _______ I I as a second degree black belt. In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 1 
1 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a certificate from the ___________ indicating 
that he earned the rank of second degree black belt. He also submitted a copy of his 
identification card and a copy of !"General System of Graduation," which describes the process 
for obtaining the black belt certificate and degrees. In addition, he submitted screenshots from I lcom and com discussing the nature ofl las well as dictionary excerpts 
defining the words "association" and "organization." 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) after determining that the submitted evidence was 
insufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfied the membership criterion. Specifically, the 
Director noted that the Petitioner had not shown that he satisfied the plain language of this criterion 
because the submitted evidence did not demonstrate that membership in the is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. In response, the Petitioner submitted an excerpt from the I I about the Petitioner's sensei,I I and argued that the biographical article 
demonstrated that who awarded the Petitioner his second degree black belt, was a national 
expert in the field of 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion, and 
we agree with that determination . The documentation submitted by the Petitioner does not provide 
the bylaws or eligibility requirements for induction into the __ _,IAlthough he presented screenshots 
from I website, ranging on various topics such as tournaments, news, and rankings, these 
screenshots do not show the requirements for the Although he submitted the "General System 
of Graduation," which describes the process of obtaining a black belt, the Petitioner did not offer any 
further information regarding the membership requirements, nor did he reference or cite to 
any bylaws, governing regulations, or any other authoritative requirements for the I I Moreover, 
althou h the record demonstrates that the Petitioner attained a second degree black belt from the I 
the significance of this achievement as it relates to membership with the 
and the relationship, if any, between! land the is unclear. Although the 
materials submitted demonstrate the Petitioner's affiliation with[:==Jthe record lacks evidence 
demonstrating membership requirements for this association to show that it requires outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For these reasons the 
Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 2 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
(providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that 
requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition 
of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research) . 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
3 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. In addition to determining that some material was not primarily about the Petitioner, the 
Director also noted that several articles lacked the name of the publication and the publication date, 
and were not supported by citation statistics or information about the publications. Accordingly, the 
Director requested additional evidence to overcome these evidentiary deficiencies. 
In response, the Petitioner resubmitted most of the initially submitted articles, along with information 
from www.facebook.com about the publications I I and I 
and again asserted the submitted documentation satisfies this criterion. The Director was not 
persuaded and found the submitted evidence insufficient to establish that the Petitioner met the 
requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination. 
For example, although the Petitioner submitted several articles regarding various! I competitions 
and events, not all of the articles are specifically about the Petitioner and his work in the field. 3 
Although these articles mention the Petitioner and other competitors and their placements, the plain 
language of this criterion requires published material to contain a title, date, and an author; to be about 
the Petitioner and his work in the field; and to be printed in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) does not consider articles 
which mention the Petitioner's name in passing to be about him and his work in the field. 
We acknowledge that one article, '----------------------------' discusses the Petitioner in greater depth, but the Petitioner has not shown that this coverage appeared 
in media that qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. As noted by 
the Director, the article appears to be clipped from a newspaper and omits the original publication 
source and date of publication. Although a separately cut date is appended to the article, the name of 
the source material is not provided or pictured. Therefore, while the article reflects published material 
about the Petitioner and contains the required title and author, the date of publication is questionable 
based on the original source modification, and the name of the publication itself is not included. 4 
Therefore, we are precluded from determining whether professional or major trade publications or 
other major media published this article. 5 
Finally, we note that even if the Petitioner had demonstrated published material primarily about him, 
the record does not demonstrate that the publications in which the submitted articles appeared are 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Although the Petitioner provided 
excerpts from the Facebook pages of both I and I I 
describing the nature of their publications, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of 
the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the published material here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 We observe that several other articles submitted by the Petitioner also omit the name of the publication and append a 
publication date that appears to have been cut and pasted from a separate page or source. 
5 The Petitioner's counsel repeatedly asserts that this article was published by lhowever, there is 
no documentary evidence supporting this assertion. Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
4 
Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we did not have to rely on 
a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit any material establishing the circulation statistics for 
these publications, nor did he provide other circulation statistics in which to compare with these 
publications. 
Despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as an athlete/competitor. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]ublished material about the alien 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the 
field for which classification is sought [emphasis added]." As noted by the Director, the Petitioner 
intends to enter the United States as a coach. Therefore, any published material as a 
competitor is not within the Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. I.NS., 237 F. Supp. 
2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the 
same area of expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding 
reflect, that the Petitioner has had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Various forms of artistic display may satisfy this criterion's requirements. As a result, we evaluate 
the nature of the display. According to the plain language of this criterion, the exhibition or showcase 
must be artistic in nature. The arts may include visual art, the performing arts, music, graphic art, and 
other examples of the fine arts. And, just as the event must be artistic, the evidence must also 
demonstrate the artistic nature of a petitioner's work displayed at the event. It is not necessary for a 
petitioner to show that their work was specifically highlighted in any promotional materials or credits; 
only that his work was on display, and that both the work and the event were artistic in nature. 
The Petitioner maintains that his participation in the 2013 ______ organized by I 
demonstrates that his work has been displayed as contemplated by this criterion. The Petitioner 
argues thatl I events such as the one he participated in use LED screens, a 32-foot catwalk 
for fighters, and an elevated mat to improve audience experience, and therefore concludes that his 
participation in this event constitutes artistic display. 
In support of his assertion, the Petitioner submitted four photographs of him competing, marked with 
the words on on the bottom right comer. The Petitioner also submitted 
numerous documents pertaining to the general nature ofl I events, indicating that such 
events hostl I competitions on various levels, as well as articles discussing the history of martial 
arts and their perceived connection to performing arts. The Petitioner also provided additional 
materials regarding! I events on appeal. However, the record lacks specific information 
regarding the nature of the 2013 _____ and the manner and extent to which the Petitioner 
participated in this event. The Petitioner submitted evidence that he placed first in thel I 
5 
at this event, suggesting that the 2013 I was an athletic competition. The Petitioner 
has not established that his participation in this event was of an artistic nature, or that the event itself 
constituted an artistic venue. The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work was displayed 
at "artistic exhibitions or showcases," and therefore the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets 
the plain language of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because he worked as the headl I coach for I I an affiliate of I al I academy and martial arts team. The 
Director found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated he performed a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation, and referenced a letter in the record froml I 
team co-founder I I indicated that as head coach of one of its affiliate 
academies, the Petitioner "produced countless athletic champions, imparting his knowledge on other 
team members." Regarding his contributions as an athlete/competitor,_ I claimed that the 
Petitioner's achievements, earned on I I behalf, "expanded prestige, media attention and 
sponsorship" for the team, which ultimately expanded I reputation. 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner held any leadership position 
within the organization, or was res onsible for duties that make him a leader of _ Again, 
the Petitioner and assert that his position of head coach for I I greatly 
im acted however, there is no additional evidence outlining the Petitioner's role with 
and his actual duties, and how his coaching of athletes at this affiliate academy impacted 
as a whole, as opposed to I individually. Generally, the leading or the critical 
role must be performed on behalf of the organization as a whole rather than for a smaller segment. 
See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) . 
____ has not stated, nor has he described the Petitioner's duties or his performance in such 
a manner that the Petitioner can be said to have led the organization. The Petitioner's role within the 
organization was as a coach. It is expected that he will perform the routine duties of a coach and that 
his students will learn and some of their performances will improve. However, merely coaching, even 
if the performance of some students is considered noteworthy, does not equate to the Petitioner 
performing in a leading role . 
letter does not describe the duties the Petitioner performed for the organization in his 
role as a coach. The letter falls short of specifying how the Petitioner contributed to the organization 
in a way that is significant to the organization's outcome or what role he played in the organization's 
activities. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, at 135 (D.D.C. Dec. 16, 2013). Moreover, 
although the Petitioner also submitted testimonial letters from athletes he coached, he does not provide 
6 
detailed and probative information addressing how his role as a I coach for I an 
affiliate academy, has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of I lactivities. 
Additionally, the record does not confirm that the Petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome or standing of the I While most individuals involved 
with an organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role a etitioner must 
document that their work is crucial to the success of the entity. Although indicates that 
the Petitioner won numerous awards as a competitor forl team, the Petitioner's 
evidence does not demonstrate how his role differentiated him from the numerous team members that 
also competed and won awards on behalf of the team. We accept that performing as part of any team 
necessarily means each individual, to some degree, plays a critical role. The evidentiary criteria listed 
are meant to indicate an individual's extraordinary ability. The interpretation urged by the Petitioner, 
where participation is sufficient to demonstrate a critical role, would not further the purpose of 
determining whether an individual possesses extraordinary ability. For this reason, the Petitioner has 
not satisfied this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that lorl I are organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 h 3 viii). 
The evidence indicates that the academy serves as a training facility for professional and 
fighters. Online printouts from various websites discuss 
reputation, noting that it is "one ofl I topl I teams" and report on various championships 
won by the team over the years. While the evidence shows that I I is a successful 
organization that serves professional athletes, it is insufficient to demonstrate that the academy has a 
distinguished reputation . 
For example, the record does not establish that the establishment has received media coverage at a 
level that shows its eminence, distinction, or excellence, which might confirm its distinguished 
reputation. 6 Although the Petitioner has offered documentation relating to I athletic 
accomplishments, this evidence is insufficient to confirm that this academy has a distinguished 
reputation . 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicates that comparable evidence has been submitted relating to the 
authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows for the submission of "comparable evidence" if the ten categories of evidence 
"do not readily apply to the [petitioner's] occupation ." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a flyer from an unidentified source advertising a I I Seminar with the Petitioner at on July 16, 2016. According to the 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Merriam-Webster 's online dictionary defines 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence , distinction , or excellence or befitting an eminent person."). 
7 
Petitioner, his seminar presentation is equivalent to authorship of scholarly articles, and claims that he 
therefore meets this criterion through comparable evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) is meant to provide an alternate means for those whose 
achievements within their occupation may not be commensurate with the achievements outlined in the 
enumerated criteria. Therefore, if a petitioner is unable to submit evidence that satisfies at least three 
criteria, due to an unusual occupation, he may submit comparable evidence. It is the petitioner's 
burden to explain why the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to his occupation and how the 
evidence submitted is "comparable" to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The regulatory language precludes the consideration of comparable evidence in this case, as there is 
no indication that eligibility for visa preference in the petitioner's occupation as al lcoach 
cannot be established by at least three of the ten criteria specified by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). In fact, as indicated in this decision, the Petitioner mentioned evidence at the time of 
the initial petition filing and in his appellate brief that specifically addressed six of the ten criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Where an individual is simply unable to meet or submit sufficient documentary 
evidence of at least three of these criteria, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
does not allow for the submission of comparable evidence. As such, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he may rely on comparable evidence. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained 
or established how the documentation he has provided is comparable to the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 7 
C. Cited Authorities 
Throughout the record, the Petitioner references several of our non-precedent decisions and asserts that 
we made affirmative determinations therein regarding the extraordinary ability of other individuals based 
upon similar evidence. Here, the Petitioner has not furnished evidence sufficient to establish that the facts 
of the instant petition are analogous to those in the unpublished decisions. The decisions upon which he 
relies were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the decisions although we will not discuss each 
one separately. While we have considered each non-precedent decision referenced by the Petitioner in 
our analysis, we emphasize that we have thoroughly reviewed all of the evidence submitted in support of 
each individual criterion and find it insufficient to establish eligibility for the reasons outlined above. We 
further note that non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the 
individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
7 Nevertheless, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner is support of this criterion is not comparable. The Petitioner has 
not claimed or demonstrated that there are no scholarly publications relating tol I Moreover, aside from a photocopy 
of a flyer advertising a I seminar hosted by the Petitioner, the record contains no information regarding the nature 
and duration of this seminar or the subject matter presented, such that it could be considered comparable to a scholarly 
article in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
8 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21635112 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a rehabilitation services provider, seeks to employ the Beneficiary as a speech language 
pathologist , and to classify her as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of a beneficiary 's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a doctorate in speech language pathology from the Universi 
India, in 2013. From 2016 to 2020, the Beneficiary served on the facul o Institute of 
Speech and Hearing I I affiliated withl !University in India. The 
Beneficiary entered the United States in January 2020 to work for ________ in H-lB 
nonimmigrant status. In August 2020, still in H-lB status, she began working for the Petitioner as a 
speech-language pathologist contracted to public schools in California -first at I I 
Elementary School and then at thel I School District. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it has also submitted 
evidence to meet the criteria relating to prizes; membership in associations; original contributions; and 
leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding display 
at artistic exhibitions, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned.1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
related to judging (through the Beneficiary's peer review activity) and authorship of scholarly articles. 
We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
First, however, we note that the Petitioner's appeal includes some new material, chief among them 
being an "expert evaluation letter" from a speech language pathologist on the faculty of 
University. If this and other materials had appeared to be likely to affect the outcome of the appeal, 
we would have remanded the case for the Director to consider these new materials. But the letter is 
essentially a synopsis of the existing evidence of record, with the summary conclusion that asserts 
such evidence is sufficient to establish eligibility. As explained below, we do not agree with this 
conclusion. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The USCIS Policy Manual states: 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards 
was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to: 
• The criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; 
• The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and 
• The number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on 
competitors ( an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, 
may have little national or international significance). 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/po1icymanua1. 
The Petitioner initially claimed research grants and a "Certificate of Clinical Competence" under this 
criterion. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that these attainments are not prizes 
or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims only one qualifying award. The Beneficiary received the ___ 
Award for at a 2007 conference of the Indian Speech and Hearing Association 
(ISHA). The Director concluded that eligibility for the award was limited to conference participants. 
The Petitioner asse1is on appeal that "the Award is a national award," which "can be given 
to any national or international professional in the entire speech-language and hearing field." The key 
requirement, however, is national or international recognition, not national availability. In its appellate 
brief, the Petitioner describes ISHA and the process by which that organization selects the winning paper, 
but neither of these factors establishes that the I I Award is nationally or internationally 
recognized. For example, the Petitioner asse1ts that papers presented at the conference are selected from 
a larger number of candidate submissions, but this appears to be a regular practice of academic 
conferences, rather than an indication that participants seek consideration for a best paper award. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a newly-written letter from an ISHA 
official, who referred to the I I Award as "prestigious" but did not elaborate or provide 
corroborating evidence. 
3 
The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish the national or international recognition 
of thel IA ward. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asse1ts that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion because she is a member of ISHA and 
the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). 
ISHA governing documents in the record indicate that the qualifications for life membership are payment 
of a membership fee and "an Under-Grnduate or Post-Graduate [degree] in Speech-Language." Neither 
of these requirements amounts to an outstanding achievement in the field as required by the regulation, 
and the Petitioner has not shown that ISHA relies on recognized national or international experts to 
determine whether or not a prospective member meets membership requirements. 
Regarding her ASHA membership, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiaty holds a higher level of 
membership limited to individuals who hold a Certificate of Clinical Compliance. The Petitioner asserts 
that this certification entailed a credential evaluation, completing a 36-week clinical fellowship, and 
passing a Praxis exam. The Petitioner has not shown that any of these steps are outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major signifzcance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director concluded that, while the Petitioner has documented the Beneficiaty's original 
contributions, the Petitioner has not established the major significance of those contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
Research in the field of speech-language pathology is aimed to promote the investigation 
of speech-language and hearing disorders, foster improvement of therapeutic procedures 
for such disorders, and to stimulate the exchange of information among persons engaged 
in and disseminating such information. Therefore, the Beneficiary's expansive research 
in and of itself should be automatically considered as a major contribution to the field. 
The stated conclusion does not follow from the premise, and does not explain why speech-language 
pathology research "should automatically be considered as a major contribution to the field" of speech­
language pathology. The Petitioner must establish the significance of the Beneficiary's contributions, 
rather than the intrinsic importance of the overall field. 
4 
Publication of scholarly articles satisfies a separate criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); in order to 
satisfy this additional criterion, the Petitioner must establish the major significance of the Beneficiaty's 
contributions. Publication and presentation can be indicators of originality, but not of major significance 
without additional evidence to establish that factor. Peer-reviewed "presentations or articles in scholarly 
journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, 
or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's work as authoritative in 
the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
A Google Scholar printout lists 12 articles and papers by the Beneficiary. The printout shows that one of 
those articles has been cited three times since its publication in 2016. Two other articles, published in 
2009 and 2012 respectively, have each been cited once. The Petitioner has not established that this total 
is a "goodly number" of citations in her field, or that the citations occurred in a context that demonstrates 
major significance. 
The Petitioner asserts that the "citations indicate that [ the Beneficiary's] research ... is being used, 
considered and implemented by other researchers in the field." The standard is not whether the 
Beneficiary's contributions are productive and useful, but whether they have major significance. 
On a eal the Petitioner em hasizes twos ecific ro·ects. The title of the first is 
The Petitioner asserts that 
this project led the Beneficiary to develop a "new test/scale for the assessment of speech and language 
development inl I .. [which] is now routinely used for clinical assessment and progress 
monitoring across different training institutes in India." The Petitioner, however, documents its use at 
only two institutions: I I where the Beneficiary was an associate professor atthe time she developed 
the test; and the All-India Institute for Speech and Hearing, which provided the grant funding for the 
underlying research. A letter froml I explains how the test is useful, but does not establish its major 
significance. The same letter indicates that other existing "tests and scales are usedroutinely" in the field, 
with no explanation as to how this particular test is of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Beneficiary "developed anl I software for rehabilitation of 
language in thd I language," which "can be used in children with delayed speech and language 
with poor vocabulary" and "adult language disorders such as Aphasia who exhibit word finding 
difficulties." Both the software and the test described above are specifically for use in thel I 
language, which the Beneficiary describes as a "regional lankage of I India." This appears to 
limitthe impact of the Beneficiary's projects to the __ region; the Petitioner has notmetits burden 
of proof by explaining why the test or the software are of major significance throughout the field. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a critical role, we first look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a 
way that is of significant impmiance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or 
those of a division or department of the organization or establishment. A supporting role may be 
5 
considered "critical" if the person's performance in the role is ( or was) important in that way. It is not 
the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is (or was) critical. 6 USCISPolicy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Further below, we discuss the 
second element of the organization's distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role atl I first as an associate 
professor and then as a professor and principal. The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary "conducted 
theoretical and clinical classes" and "served as a chairperson for the board of examiners for undergraduate 
and postgraduate programs at !University." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not 
shown how the Beneficiary's roles have been critical or"more valuablethanothercolleagges atherplaces 
of employment." As a result, the Director did not address the question of whether I has a 
distinguished reputation. 
The record contains letters from the chairman of I, asserting that the Beneficiary "played a critical 
role in the growth and development of the institute" and served for two years ''as the Chairperson for the 
Board of Examinations ... forundergraduateand postgraduate courses in the field of speechandhearing." 
The submitted information indicates that the Beneficiary's role atl I went beyond the typical 
responsibilities of a faculty member, but the information describes limited, specified functions that the 
Petitioner has not shown to be of "significant importance" to the outcome of I activities. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established thatl I has a distinguished reputation, with 
"distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person." 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The chairperson's description of I as "a premier Institute in India" does not suffice in this regard. 
The chairperson indicated thatl lis "approved by the Rehabilitation Council oflndia (RCI) to run 
Undergraduate and Postgraduateprograms,"but suchapprovalis effectively permission to operate, rather 
than evidence of a distinguished reputation. The RCI Certificates of Approval in the record appear to 
designate the approval as provisional; they advise that the approvals will be canceled unless certain 
"shortcomings" are remedied. The Petitioner did not submit copies of the portions of the certificates that 
list those shortcomings, or evidence that they were overcome and approval was no longer provisional. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's work in the United States, the Petitioner asserts: "In her current role with 
[the Petitioner], [the Beneficiary] has played a critical role in various California school districts, as she 
has presented her research ... [and] has also trained teachers on how to apply this knowledge and 
awareness in a school setting." The Petitioner does not adequately explain or demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary's work as a contracted speech pathologist is critical to those school districts. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
If the above standards do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner 
may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility. 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(4). 
6 
At various stages in this proceeding, the Petitioner has asserted that some materials in the record constitute 
comparable evidence. In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established 
that the submitted evidence is comparable to regulatory criteria that do not readily apply to the 
Beneficiary's occupation. 
When evaluating claimed comparable evidence, we consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily 
applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to 
the criteria listed in that regulation. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's research and travel "grants are comparable to 
awards, because grants are awarded after a rigorous and competitive selection process." The criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) relates to nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence. The 
Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's grants are nationally or internationally recognized, and 
approved on the basis of excellence in the field. Furthermore, a petitioner may rely on comparable 
evidence only when the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to a beneficiary's occupation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h)(4 ). Here, the Petitioner has claimed that the Beneficiary received a qualifying award, 
effectively stipulating that that the criterion relating to prizes and awards does readily apply to her 
occupation. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that (1) the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to 
the Beneficiary's occupation, and (2) the evidence submitted is indeed comparable to the evidence that 
would meet one of those criteria. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Beneficiary has attained the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks to obtain for the Beneficiary a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition 
of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record establishes that the Beneficiary used to perform research while employed in academia, and 
that she continues to pmvide therapeutic care to students in schools that contract the petitioning company 
for those services. While the Beneficiary's research has added knowledge to her field, and therapeutic 
services are valuable to the individuals receiving them, these activities are intrinsic to the Beneficiary's 
7 
occupation rather than hallmarks of specific recognition and acclaim. The Petitioner has shown that the 
Beneficiary has had an active and productive career, but has not met its burden of proof to establish that 
the Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim, and stands in the small percentage 
of those at the very top of her field. From the documentation submitted, her impact in the field appears 
to have been largely limited to the institutions where she has worked. Where the documentation does 
meet the letter of two regulatory criteria, it does so in ways that appear to be more routine in academia -
specifically, through publication of the Beneficiary's own research, and through peer review of articles 
by others. The Beneficiary's evaluation of graduate theses appears to have been inherent to her 
responsibilities as a college professor. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20812457 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a tattoo artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de 
nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a tattoo artist at _________ in I I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets 
three additional evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he received the following awards: 
• "Best Large Color" second place at the (2019) 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
2 
• "Best of Day" at thel ITattoo Expo (2019) 
• "Best Tattoo of Second Day" first place at the I I Tattoo Week (2018) 
• "Medium Color" first place and "Tattoo of the Day (Color) Saturday" third place at the I lrattoo Arts Convention (2019 
• "Best Large Color Tattoo" at the Tattoo Arts Convention (2018) 
• "Best Large Color" and "Best Portrait" at the attoo Festival (2019) 
• "Best Asian Theme" second place at the Tattoo Competition (2019) 
• "Third place in the category 'Best of Color"' at the Tattoo Convention I (2018) 
• "Best of Black and Grey" second place and "Best of Color" second place at the "Tattoo 
Convention I I (2018) 
While the Petitioner provided promotional information about the above tattoo expositions from their 
organizers' websites and some media coverage relating to several of the events, this documentation 
does not indicate the si nificance of his particular awards. In addition, letters from the organizers of 
the Tattoo Expo, I I Tattoo Expo, I I Tattoo 
Week, and the ___ Tattoo Arts Convention mention the Petitioner's awards and discuss their 
tattoo conventions, but the record does not include evidence showing that the Petitioner's specific 
awards were recognized by the field in general or outside of the aforementioned events. Without 
further information regarding the selection criteria for his awards or evidence of their national or 
international significance in the field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. The Petitioner has not established 
therefore that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner argues that the Director disregarded letters from experts in his field 
that were provided in response to the Director's request for evidence. 4 He contends that these letters 
demonstrate that he "has made unique contributions of major significance to the field."5 As discussed 
below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific "original" contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, owner of _________ asserted that the Petitioner's "art is 
exceptional in I and Realistic Color. . . . [The Petitioner] has created a new style as far 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
4 The appellate brief also lists a "sponsorship agreement from dated September 2021," but the document is 
unsigned, and the agreement post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
as tattoo segment is concerned as one can clearly see how peers are getting inspired by this unique 
technique and trying to copy him all around the world." Likewise,! I owner of I 
Dattoo shop inlCalifomia, contended that the Petitioner "has created a unique artistic 
movement which did not exist before. He calls it the I lstyle. His designs are inspired 
by painters, movies, music and street culture of the 80's and 90's. This is really something innovative 
in our industry and entirely new in the tattoo world." The statements from I and I 
however, are insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's work has influenced the tattoo industry to the 
extent that it is of major significance in the field. The record does not include sufficient information 
or supporting evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's artistry has affected the field in a substantial 
way or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major significance in his field. 
In addition, I a tattoo artist with I in I I Poland, indicated 
that the Petitioner "created a new style which includes hyper realistic portraits of famous actors, or 
characters, all connected to th of the United States. He created his 
own signature brand .... [The petitioner's art is exce tional in color hyper realistic 
SimilarlyJ I owner of in I Canada, stated that the 
Petitioner "is an extraordinary tattoo artist who has created his own artistic movement called the I She further claimed that "many artists all over the world are influenced by [the 
Petitioner's] art and some have already begun implementing his style in their own creations," but she 
does not identify those individuals who have implemented his style, nor does the record show his level 
of influence on other tattoo artists in the field. While I landl I both asserted that the 
Petitioner has created a new artistic style, they did not offer specific examples of how his I I !artistry has risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in his field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how the individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and his impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 7 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
7 Id. 
4 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a critical role for 
I andl YouTube Channel,! I I and I 
With regard to his role for the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has 
served as a tattoo artist at the shop since 2018. In his letter dated September 30, 2021, studio owner 
I I stated: "Our studio has greatly benefited from [the Petitioner's] contributions and he has 
played a critical role in its fast growth. Having [the Petitioner] as a member of our team has definitely 
made our tattoo studio strive [sic] and gave it the recognition we had anticipated." Whilel ] 
asserted that his shop employs a number of "first class tattoo artists" and that the Petitioner's work is 
"in very high demand in our studio," he did not provide specific, detailed information demonstrating 
the critical nature of the Petitioner's role. 8 For instance,! I letter did not indicate the amount 
of revenue or new clients the Petitioner has brought into his studio, or otherwise explain how the 
Petitioner's role was critical relative to the other tattoo artists employed at the shop. Nor did I I letter identify specific examples of how the Petitioner has garnered recognition for the studio 
in a way that has been of significant importance to the outcome of the studio's business. Accordingly,  
the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has performed in a critical role for 
The record also includes letters from I l I and 
indicating that they have endorsement or sponsorship relationships with the Petitioner. For example, I co-founder ofl I stated: 
We are proud to be working with [the Petitioner] for our brand as well 
as ourl IYouTube channel which averages over 3 million views a month .... [W]e are honored honored to be working with [the Petitioner] on his customl I 
__ _jmd we look forward to a long and successful relationship together. 
We entered into a formal agreement with [the Petitioner] and he personally designed 
his 2019 which we put into production the same year. 
[The Petitioner] has permitted further global exposure of our line of I as well as 
our brand around the world. His role as an ambassador for our brand has been critical 
to our company as it has substantially increased our sales globally. Collaborating with 
artists ... such as [ the Petitioner] is critical to promoting our brand within the particular 
market niche our products cater to. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
___ statements do not offer specific sales figures for thel I designed by the Petitioner 
or discuss his particular contribution in the context of the company's total sales revenue. Nor does I elaborate on the Petitioner's involvement with thel I YouTube channel or the 
importance of his role relative to the many other artists who participate in the 
Without detailed and probative information showing that the Petitioner's particular r 
promotional work has resulted in critical or essential outcomes for I or th _ 
LJYouTube channel, the evidence does not establish that he has performed in a critical role for the 
company . 
In addition, ___ owner of I asserted that his company "has greatly benefited 
from the Petitioner's critical endorsement of our products. We have planned to produce his personal 
__________ __,because he uses such a unique range of colors and skin tones in his 
tattoos." 
Likewise, _______ creative director at ____ stated: 
[The Petitioner] is a tattoo artist sponsored by _______ After using our 
products for years, [the Petitioner] has become a very valuable addition to our business 
by promoting our products and brand when attending international and national 
conventions . . . . [The Petitioner] helps us by spreading brand awareness worldwide 
and proving that our quality is as high-quality as his work. 
Additionallyj owner ofl I asserted that the Petitioner "is amongst our brand 
ambassadors of international reputation. He has been essential in the promotion of our brand 
worldwide as he participates in international conventions all year long." further indicated 
that the Petitioner's "contributions thus far have been critical to further exposing our products to other 
markets and increase our sales globally." 
The Petitioner also submitted his May 2018 -May 2020 "Sponsorship Contract" withl I I I His obligations under this contract included using I I providing 
photographs of his completed tattoos with the I promoting the company on social media, 
and displaying !publicity material while at conventions. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his specific endorsement and sponsorship 
collaborations with and I I are integral to their operations as 
I _______ product producers and distributors such that his promotional activities rise to 
the level of a critical role. For example, the record does not indicate the amount or percentage of their 
company sales growth attributable to his product endorsements . While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has helped promote their brands, the information provided in the aforementioned letters and 
sponsorship contract is insufficient to demonstrate that his specific role was critical for the successes 
or outcomes of their business operations. 
In addition, the evidence concerning _________ ___ I I andl I does not establish that they have a distinguished reputation. For 
instance, the Petitioner provided articles aboutl I in Orange County Weekly and 
Tokewell magazine, but he has demonstrated that this level of media coverage is insufficient to show 
6 
that the company has a distinguished reputation . 9 The record also includes information about the 
aforementioned companies from their own websites, but such self-promotional information is not 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have a earned a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received O-1B status, a classification reserved for 
nonirnmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved multiple 0-1 B nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner , the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'! v. Mayorkas , et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 
2021); Q Data Consulting , Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore , our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual , we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification , intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that Merriam-Web ster's online dictionary 
defines distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction , or excellence). 
10 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21655336 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the hospitality industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner founded al I franchise in Ukraine in 2011. He entered the United States in 2017 
as a B-1 nonimmigrant visitor for business, and changed to 0-1 status in 2021 to work as global business 
development manager for smartphone app developer! 1 In a volunteer position as Chief 
Innovation Officer of the I I be co-founded "the 
innovation arm of I The Petitioner has also advised the I J and 
I lat the University 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work 
of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements" to satisfy the other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied one additional criterion 
relating to judging and published material, for a total of two criteria. 2 We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extmordina1y ability. Nevertheless, the record of proceeding 
for the approvednonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the 
same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. The Petitioner 
submitted a copy of USC TS Policy Alert PA-2021-05, Deference to Prior Determinations of Eligibility in Requests for 
Extensions of Petition Validity (Apr. 27, 2021 ), https://www.uscis.gov/news/ale1is, but that policy ale1i only address 
extensions of the validity of nonimmigrant petitions; it does not indicate that adjudicators of immigrant petitions owe 
deference to prior approvals of roughly analogous nonimmigrant petitions. The cited policy alert does not state or imply 
that the approval of an 0-1 nonimmigra nt petition creates a presumption of eligibility for immigrant classification as an 
individualofexttaordinary ability. 
2 The Directordeterminedthatanarticle from the UkminianeditionofForbeslackedan author credit and publication date 
as required by 8 C.F .R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(iii). The Petitioner states on appeal that he had submitted this information, and the 
record confirms thathe submitted a letter from the magazine's editor containing that information. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to have satisfied this criterion because the Ukrainian edition of Forbes named him 
among their I I entrepreneurs who have achieved success before age 30, and My Kharkov 
ranked him among the ___________________________ 
I I 
The Director requested more evidence to show that the articles described above constitute prizes or 
awards. In response, the Petitioner resubmitted the My Kharkov article, and a letter from the "Chief 
Redactor" of the Ukrainian edition of Forbes. That official refers to I but the 
accompanying printouts from the U.S. website of Forbes refer only to the I , lnot award. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that recognition in these 
publications amounts to prizes or awards. On appeal, the Petitioner disputes this conclusion but offers no 
specific rebuttal. He states the conclusion that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements," 
but makes no argument to supp01i that conclusion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he received any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field. As noted above, we have already concluded that the Forbes article 
satisfies the separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) relating to published material. 
Asse1iions about the prestige of inclusion in Forbes's I I list would have been considered in 
the context of a final merits determination, if the proceeding had reached that point. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion because he is the Chieflnnovation Officer of the 
and because of "[s]election to represent the hospitality industry in the exclusive invite only I I I program atl !University." The Petitioner submitted no evidence to establish 
that thel lprogram is an association in the field, and the Petitioner submitted no 
further evidence about the program in response to a request for evidence. 
A printout from thel !website confirms the Beneficiary's position there, but the Petitioner has not 
established thatc=]membership conforms to the regulation by requiring outstanding achievements of 
its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. The leadership is not, 
itself, an association in the field. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary evidence, 
such as bylaws, to establish that the requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. On appeal, the Petitioner 
states, without elaboration, that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements." 
3 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In his initial submission, the Petitioner cited four submitted exhibits as evidence of his qualifying 
contributions. First, a blog published on the website of the Wall Street Journal spotlights thel J 
at one of the Petitioner's clubs, which "offers complimentary drinks [in exchange] for a variety of 
social media activities." The blog post does not ref er to this innovation as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, and the Petitioner has not submitted other evidence of such significance, such as, 
for example, showing that the hospitality industry has wide ly adopted a similar policy of bartering social 
media mentions for drinks. 3 He indicated that thel Japp facilitates similar transactions for other 
bars, but the record does not establish the significance of that app. For example, the Petitioner has not 
established widespread use of the app. 
The second cited exhibit is a 2019 article from Bar & Restaurant, with the title I 
I I The article indicates that the and a venture 
capital firm called lwere collaborating on a startup incubator. The article describes the 
process for selecting candidate companies, but does not demonstrate that, or explain how, the project itself 
is of major significance in the field. The article states that the impetus behind the project is to spur 
innovation in the hospitality industry, but it does not indicate that the project has already led to such 
innovation. Rather, it states that the first fruits of the project would be presented at a trade show that, at 
the time of publication, had not yet occurred. 
The third cited exhibit is a letter from the directorof at Ide scribing 
the Petitioner's "cooperation with on projects aimed at improving technology 
opportunities forthe hospitality industry." The letter indicates that Intel named the Petitioner as its advisor 
with regard to "development of innovative hardware solutions for various venues in the hospitality 
industry worldwide." As with the article described above, the letter does not identify any specific 
innovations or projects. Rather, the letter indicates that the Petitioner "has already connected with 
12 other hardware development companies." From the letter, it is not entirely clear what the Petitioner's 
claimed original contribution is. In the absence of other information or evidence in support, acting as a 
volunteer advisor is not inherently an original contribution. 
Finally, the Petitioner submits a letter from the executive director of which 
"teaches entrepreneurship skills for future professionals in the Hospitality sector." The letter indicates 
that the Petitioner "provides his invaluable expertise and allows us to attract some of the best innovators," 
but the Petitioner has not established how this is significant to the greater field outside of I 
In a request for evidence, the Director stated that the Petitioner's initial submission provided "broad 
attestations" but not "specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance." 
3 The blog post dates from 2014, seven years before the filing of the petition, and therefore there has been ample time for 
other establishments to adopt similar practices, and for evidence of such adoption to accumulate. 
4 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter from an official of which 
organizes "the biggest nightclub and bar show in the world." The letter states that the Petitioner "has 
incubated and then introduced us to several successful startups ... that disrupted our industry in the most 
positive sense. I believe their success would not be possible without [the Petitioner's] unique system of 
scaling and providing the market access to these startups." The letter names several of these startups, but 
does not provide fmther details or corroborating evidence. Even if these startups have, themselves, made 
an impact on the hospitality industty, it does not necessarily follow that the Petitioner's involvement in 
the incubation process is, itself, a contribution of major significance in the field. The Petitioner does not 
provide details about his "unique systems" or establish, for example, that his systems have resulted in 
greater success for the startups involved. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not identified specific original 
contributions or provided details to show the major significance of those contt·ibutions. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements," but he does not 
elaborate or identify any specific error by the Director in this regard. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner owned successful I I in Ukraine, and that he has been 
active in incubating hospitality businesses in the United States, but while we acknowledge a level of 
success, it does not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim. The record refers to the 
Petitioner's most recent work in the United States in terms of its potential, rather than its existing 
impact. Speculation about what could result from the Petitioner's ongoing work is not an adequate 
basis for granting the extremely restrictive immigrant classification the Petitioner seeks. The record 
does not show sustained recognition and attention outside of entities where he has worked as an 
employee, consultant, or volunteer. We note that his 0-1 nonimmigrant status is contingent on his 
5 
employment with but the record contains minimal information about the company and his 
work there. 
The Petitioner's statement on appeal identifies only one specific error by the Director, which we have 
taken into account in the above discussion. The general, blanket assertion that his evidence "satisfies 
the applicable legal requirements" does not rebut or overcome the Director's other adverse findings. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
dismiss the appeal for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 20612244 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition in 2019. We dismissed the 
Petitioner's appeal in March 2020, concluding that the evidence did not confirm his receipt of a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award), and did not show that he met at 
least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As such, he did not establish 
eligibility to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In May 2020, the Petitioner filed a Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating on Part 2, 
that he was filing "an appeal to the AAO [ Administrative Appeals Office]" and that he would "submit 
[his] brief and/or additional evidence to the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal." He 
also indicated on Part 7 of the Form I-290B that he was "filing a motion to reopen & motion to 
reconsider ," and requesting additional time to file his statement and documents in support of his 
combined motions (first motion filing). In June 2020, the Petitioner submitted a statement and 
additional evidence in support of his first motion filing.1 In October 2020, we dismissed his first 
motion filing, explaining that the motion filing did not satisfy the regulatory requirements under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) and (3). See also 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). We explained that when the Petitioner 
filed his first motion filing in May 2020, he did "not state new facts that are supported by documentary 
1 In September 2020, the Petitioner submitted a statement, clarifying that he was filing combined motions, not an appeal, 
in May 2020. 
evidence" and "did not submit a statement or brief with [the] motion to reconsider referencing a 
pertinent legal authority." 
In November 2020, the Petitioner submitted another motion filing, combined motions to reconsider 
and reopen the proceeding ( second motion filing). In September 2021, we dismissed his second 
motion filing, explaining that we had dismissed his first motion filing for the following reasons: 
[T]the regulations regarding the submission of a motion to reopen or a motion to 
reconsider do not provide an allowance for additional time to submit a statement, brief 
or additional evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5 ( a )(1 )(iii), see also Instructions for Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, Form I-290B at 6 (rev. 5/17/2018). The second motion [filing] 
does not provide evidence that the brief [ and/or additional evidence] was submitted by 
the Petitioner together with the Form I-290B of the first motion [filing]. 
As the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to 
reconsider, we will dismiss the [second] motion [filing]." 
The matter is now before us on a third motion filing, combined motions to reconsider and reopen the 
proceeding. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012);Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010).2 Upon review, we 
will dismiss the Petitioner's third motion filing. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. In addition, by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to 
"the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). This 
means that the scope of the instant motion filing (third motion filing) is limited to our September 2021 
decision dismissing the Petitioner's second motion filing. As such, the issues before us are, as relating 
to our September 2021 motion decision: (1) whether the Petitioner has "state[ d] the new facts to be 
provided in the reopened proceeding and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence"; 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true. it has satisfied the preponderance oftheevidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec. at 375-
76. 
2 
and (2) whether he has shown that our September 2021 decision "was based on an incorrect application 
of law or [U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)] policy." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), (3). 
On motion, the Petitioner "reiterates that he submitted his executed statement/brief including his 
supplemental evidentiary documents to support his motion on May 2020 via US Priority mail." As 
discussed, the Petitioner submitted his first motion filing in May 2020, without including a brief, a 
statement or additional supporting evidence. After he submitted his Form I-290B initiating his first 
motion filing, he provided a statement and additional evidence. We explained in our September 2021 
decision denying his second motion filing that, under the regulations, and unlike an appeal, a petitioner 
must submit a statement and/or additional evidence in support of a motion at the same time he or she 
files the Form I-290B. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(iii), see also Instructions for Notice of Appeal or 
Motion, Form I-290B at 6 (rev. 12/02/l 9)(specifyingthat "[f]or appeals," not motions, a petitioner 
"must file any brief and/or additional evidence within 30 calendar days of filing Form I-290B"). 3 For 
motions, a petitioner cannot submit such materials after filing his or her Form I-290B, as the Petitioner 
had done in this case. 
We will dismiss the Petitioner's instant motion to reconsider the matter ( third motion filing), because 
he has not shown that our September 2021 decision dismissing his second motion filing was based on 
an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, or that our decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence then before us. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Specifically, the Petitioner has not shown that 
he may file supporting documents for a motion after his filing of a Form I-290B that initiated the 
motion. In addition, he has not shown that he filed his supporting documentations at the same time he 
filed his Form I-290B in May 2020. 
Similarly, we will dismiss the Petitioner's instant motion to reopen the proceeding (third motion 
filing), because the materials he offers on motion relate to the bases under which the Director denied 
the petition in 2019 and the bases under which we dismissed his appeal in March 2020. The motion 
materials, however, do not concern the reasons specified in our September 2021 motion decision, in 
which we dismissed his second motion filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2); see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ I 03 .5( a)( I )(i) (noting that the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision"). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider the matter because his third motion filing does 
not establish that we erred in our September 2021 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). In 
addition, we will dismiss his motion to reopen the proceeding because he has not provided 
documentary evidence of new facts as relating to our September 2021 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 In his statement in support ofthe instant (third)motion filing, the Petitioner appears to believe that his May2020motion 
filing (first motion filing) was an appeal and cites regulations and AAO Practice Manual sections pertaining to appeals. 
His May 2020 filing was in fact a motion filing,not an appeal. He filed an appeal in 2019, which we dismissed on its 
merits in March 2020. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21841672 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete who competes in rhythmic gymnastics, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, as it did 
not demonstrate that she has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized 
award) or, in the alternative, that she meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In visa petition proceedings , the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a rhythmic gymnast, provided evidence that she was an active competitor in her sport 
from early childhood through the end of 2014. She indicates that she attended I I 
University from 2015 to 2019, where she studied linguistic methods of teaching Russian language. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three of the ten criteria: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iii) Published materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media; and 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that she met any of the claimed criterion. 
On appeal, she maintains that she established by a preponderance of the evidence that she meets all 
three criteria and is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. We have 
reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not demonstrate that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
2 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
In a supporting letter, the Petitioner indicated that she "has won numerous medals at major national 
and international Rhythmic Gymnastics tournaments." The Petitioner provided a list of nearly 30 
rhythmic gymnastics competitions held between 2005 and 2014. She did not indicate that she had 
achieved a prize or award at all the listed competitions, nor did she provide any supporting evidence 
relating to the competitions in support of her assertion that her claimed first, second and third place 
finishes were nationally or internationally recognized awards. The Petitioner submitted copies of 
certificates or diplomas for the following awards in support of the petition: 
• First Place at the 3 3rd Summer Spartakiad of 
Youth in Rhythmic Gymnastics, awarded by the Ministry of Culture, Sport, and Tourism of I in May 2014. 
• Third Place at the International Tournament I I 2011, awarded by Club Rhythmic 
Gymnastics! in July 2011. __ 
• First Place at School Championship in Rhythmic Gymnastics in I issued by the 
Specialized Youth Sport School of Olympic Reserve I __________ (two 
certificates, awarded to her in 2010 and 2011, respectively) 
• First Place at the City Cup Competition in Rhythmic Gymnastics in issued by 
the Department of Physical Culture and Sport of Administration I (two 
certificates, awarded to her in March 2009 and February 2010, respectively ), 
• First Place at the Regional Championship in Rhythmic Gymnastics in I issued 
by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism! (no date provided). 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs of what appears to be a gymnastics team medal ceremony, 
but the photographs do not include any identifying information regarding the medalists or the event 
and were not accompanied by any additional evidence or explanation. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's evidence that she received 
the award certificates listed above but advised that the evidence did not demonstrate that any of her 
awards were nationally or internationally recognized awards. The Director provided a list of suggested 
evidence, such as evidence of the criteria used to grant the awards, evidence of media coverage relating 
to the awards, and information regarding the scope of the competitions. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that she "has performed at many competitive national and 
international professional level events and has won coveted awards and prizes at various prestigious 
and acclaimed venues and events around the world." The Petitioner submitted additional information 
regarding the following competitions from the organizers of the events: 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
• The I I Russia-wide competition in rhythmic gymnastics held in 
Russia in October 2011. 
• The I !All-Russia Rhythmic Gymnastics tournament for all-around and group 
exercises for thel l Cup held June 2014 in the city of IRussia. 
• Thel Cup for rhythmic gymnastics (all-around program and group exercises) 
held in October 2014 in Russia. 
Although the Petitioner indicated in her initial submission that she participated in these competitions, 
she did not claim that she had achieved awards or prizes at any of them, nor did she provide any 
documentation indicating her receipt of awards at these specific events. The RFE response did not 
include any additional evidence related to the awards that the Petitioner documented at the time of 
filing. 
After reviewing the Petitioner's response, the Director concluded that she did not submit evidence that 
satisfies this criterion. The Director noted that the documented awards in the record were not 
accompanied by any information regarding the events or awarding entities. Further, the Director 
observed that they all appeared to be either local or regional competitions, or school competitions 
limited to competitors who attended a single educational institution. Accordingly, the Director 
determined that the evidence did not establish that the submitted certificates evidence the Petitioner's 
receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the sport of 
rhythmic gymnastics. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates her claim that she "has performed at many competitive national 
and international professional level events and has won coveted awards and prizes at various 
prestigious and acclaimed venues and events around the world." She maintains that her response to 
the RFE included "extensive evidence to establish that the awards were indeed for excellence" and 
asserts that the Director disregarded the RFE response and evidence that she has received the "top 
awards" in her sport. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet her burden 
to establish that the awards documented in the record are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards or prizes in the sport of rhythmic gymnastics. The Petitioner provided evidence that she 
received awards at two "City Cup" competitions, at two school-based competitions, at one or two 
regional competitions, and at one "club" tournament. The Petitioner was provided an opportunity to 
provide additional documentation in support of her claim that these are nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes in her sport and did not avail herself of this opportunity. The RFE response included 
no additional evidence or information related to these competitions or the Petitioner's documented 
awards. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that her response to the RFE included "extensive evidence" in 
support of this criterion. Although the RFE response included evidence related to three rhythmic 
gymnastics competitions including an "All-Russia" competition, the record contains no evidence of 
the Petitioner's receipt of an award or prize at any of these events and therefore we need not address 
whether those events award prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized. 
4 
The Petitioner did not meet her burden to establish that her school-based, local, and regional awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized prizes for excellence in her field. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as stated 
in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. To 
qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international distribution. 2 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated she and her work in the sport of rhythmic gymnastics have 
"been covered by publications in major media." The Petitioner submitted the following evidence in 
support of this criterion: 
• An article from 2014 titled published in an unidentified 
Russian-language publication. 
• An article titled I I published on ____ 2018, m an unidentified Russian-language 
publication. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence did not satisfy the plain language of 
this criterion, noting, in part, that the articles were not accompanied by evidence that the articles 
appeared in major trade or professional publications or other major media. The Director also noted 
that at least one of the articles is not about the Petitioner and requested that she provide additional 
information regarding the title, date and author of the published material, comparative circulation or 
distribution data for the publications, and information regarding the intended audiences of the 
publications. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that she "has been featured in many trade publications" 
and that such publications "discuss [her] outstanding results in the field of rhythmic gymnastics." She 
requested that the Director review her original submission. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided two articles and explained why neither article 
satisfied all requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
reiterates that "many trade publications" have featured her and her "outstanding achievements" in her 
sport. She maintains that the Director reached an erroneous conclusion based on the evidence already 
in the record. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
5 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that satisfies this criterion. The article titled 
is about the 
in Russia. It discusses the Petitioner as one of ____ 
The article notes that the Petitioner _______________________ 
was the youngest person selected, mentions her success in regional and city cup competitions in 
rhythmic gymnastics, and includes a quote from her. However, the Petitioner did not identify the 
name or title of the publication where the article appeared or its specific date of publication, and the 
record does not include any supporting evidence to show that the unidentified publication qualifies as 
a major trade or professional publication or other major media. 
The second article is about the success of a "senior troop of thel I dancing group 
The article does not mention the Petitioner and is not related to her work as a rhythmic 
gymnast. Further the Petitioner did not identify the title of the publication, the name of the author or 
provide supporting evidence that would support her claim that the article appeared in a qualifying 
trade or professional publication or major media. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). As noted, she must demonstrate that she meets at least three criteria to satisfy 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification. While the Petitioner claims to meet one 
additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), our determination that she does not the two criteria 
discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the 
Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she has made original 
athletic contributions of major significance in her field, or her appellate claims relating to this 
criterion. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field and is one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23396779 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner 
appealed; however, we dismissed the appeal, concluding that the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner filed a subsequent 
motion to reopen, in which he requests "the opportunity to remedy the results of the ineffective 
assistance of counsel by submitting anew [sic] response to the USCIS request of additional evidence." 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original application. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation , the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). 
Accordingly, we examine any new facts to the extent that they pertain to our prior dismissal of the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
In support of the motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits a brief, asserting that his prior attorney, who 
represented the Petitioner at the time of filing the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
through the time of our decision on the appeal, was thereafter suspended by the Florida Bar for 
violations of Florida rules of professional conduct in 2019. The Petitioner also asserts that he has 
satisfied the requirements of Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. 637 (BIA 1988), aff'd, 857 F.2d 10 (1st 
Cir. 1988), "to the best of his ability." The Petitioner further asserts that the Director is "the official 
having jurisdiction over this matter" because the Director "is the official who made the latest decision 
in the proceeding," citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
Also in support of the motion, the Petitioner submits an attestation, in which he asserts, in relevant 
part, the following: 
The [a]ttorney ... advised to file [a]ppeal and submitted Fonn I-120B [sic] on April 
26, 2018. 
Attorney ... ineffectively submitted Form I-120 [sic]. I won _____ 
__ Award aftersubmittingmy Forml-140 and the attorney requested to re-open 
my case based on this new fact. 
Form I-290B was dismissed on November 28, 2018. 
The Petitioner does not otherwise address on motion to reopen a fact that existed at the time of filing 
the petition that his prior attorney failed to address on appeal. 
First, because the Petitioner appealed the Director's decision and the Administrative Appeals Office 
(AAO) made a decision on the appeal, the AAO has jurisdiction over this motion to reopen. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner's prior attorney has been suspended from the practice of law by 
the Florida Bar, and we further acknowledge that the Petitioner requests "approval of this motion to 
reopen the proceeding to be allowed to submit anew [sic] response to the USCIS' request for additional 
evidence." However, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N 
Dec. 637. 
In Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. 63 7, the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) established a 
framework for asserting and assessing claims of ineffective assistance of counsel. The Board set forth 
the following documentary requirements for asserting a claim of ineffective assistance: 
• A written affidavit of the petitioner attesting to the relevant facts. The affidavit 
should provide a detailed description of the agreement with former counsel (i.e., 
the specific actions that counsel agreed to take), the specific actions actually taken 
by former counsel, and any representations that former counsel made about his or 
her actions. 
• Evidence that the petitioner informed former counsel of the allegation of ineffective 
assistance and was given an opportunity to respond. Any response by prior counsel 
2 
(or report of former counsel's failure or refusal to respond) should be submitted 
with the claim. 
• If the petitioner asserts that the handling of the case violated former counsel's 
ethical or legal responsibilities, evidence that the petitioner filed a complaint with 
the appropriate disciplinary authorities ( e.g., with a state bar association) or an 
explanation why the petitioner did not file a complaint. 
Id. at 639. These documentary requirements are designed to ensure we possess the essential 
information necessary to evaluate ineffective assistance claim and to deter meritless claims. Id. 
Allowing former counsel to present his or her version of events discourages baseless allegations, and 
the requirement of a complaint to the appropriate disciplinary authorities is intended to eliminate any 
incentive for counsel to collude with his or her client in disparaging the quality of the representation. 
Id. Counsel's acceptance of responsibility for error does not satisfy the requirementto file a complaint 
with the appropriate disciplinary authority, particularly where the ineffective assistance allegation is 
provided by the same attorney. Matter of Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. 169, 170 (BIA 2020). 
In addition to these documentaryrequirements, a petitioner must show that former counsel's assistance 
was so deficient that the petitioner was prejudiced by the performance. Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. at 632; 
Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. at 171. 1 Specifically, a petitioner must demonstrate a reasonable probability 
that, but for counsel's error, they would have prevailed on their claim. Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. at 171. 
Harmless error is insufficient. See Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. at 639 ( explaining that individuals are 
"generally bound by the conduct of their attorneys absent egregious circumstances"). 
In this case, the Petitioner submitted an affidavit in support of the motion to reopen, attesting to 
relevant facts. However, the Petitioner did not submit in support of the motion to reopen evidence 
that he informed his former counsel of the allegation of ineffective assistance of counsel and that his 
former counsel had the opportunity to respond, as required by Lozada. Id. The Petitioner also did not 
submit in support of the motion to reopen evidence that he filed a complaint with the appropriate 
disciplinary authorities or an explanation why he did not file a complaint, as required by Lozada. Id. 
Instead, the Petitioner asserts on motion that "failure to comply with the Lozada requirements may not 
be considered where the alleged ineffective assistance is plain on the face of the administrative record." 
The Petitioner also asserts that "failure to report attorney's misconduct to a disciplinary authority or 
to confront his attorney direction where such action would have been futile is excused." However, the 
Petitioner cites only cases in the Ninth Circuit to support his assertions, and Ninth Circuit opinions are 
advisory, not binding, in the state of Florida, where the Petitioner resides and the attorney in question 
practiced law. Furthermore, as discussed below, even if the Petitioner had satisfied the Lozada 
requirements, the Petitioner does not establish that the outcome would have been different, but for his 
prior attorneys actions or inactions. 
Next, the facts presented on motion that address the eligibility criteria at section 203(b )(1) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) may not establish eligibility. Specifically, as noted above, the Petitioner 
1 In Lozada, the Board determined that Lozada was not prejudiced by counsel's failure to file an appeal brief (resulting in 
the summary dismissal of the appeal) because: he received a full and fair hearing at his deportation hearing, at which he 
was given every opportunity to present his case; he did not allege any inadequacy in the quality of prior counsel's 
representation at the hearing; the immigration judge considered and properly evaluated all the evidence presented;and the 
immigrationjudge's decision was supported by the record. 
3 
asserts on motion that he won an award "after submitting my Form I-140." The Petitioner does not 
otherwise address on motion to reopen a fact material to first preference eligibility that may affect the 
disposition of this matter. 
A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
Because the facts presented on motion that address eligibility criteria at section 203 (b )(1) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h) occurred "aftersubmittingmy Fonnl-140," as the Petitionerasse1is, they may 
not establish eligibility. See id. Accordingly, the record does not establish that the Petitioner has met 
at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Moreover, the Petitioner's assertion that his prior attorney "ineffectively" addressed on appeal that the 
Petitioner "won Award after submitting my Form I-140"is misplaced. In 
our decision, we noted several lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor that the Petitioner had received before the petition filing date, and 
we acknowledged that the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Therefore, even 
if the award the Petitioner received after the petition filing date could establish eligibility, which it 
cannot, it would not aff ectthe outcome of the appeal because we already found thatthe record satisfies 
the applicable criterion. 
Because the Petitioner does not offer any new facts supported by documentary evidence on motion to 
reopen that may establish eligibility, we will dismiss the motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of Lozada. Further, the Petitioner has not offered 
new facts supported by documentary evidence on motion demonstrating eligibility for the benefit 
sought. The Petitioner's underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23071325 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oil and gas specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), concluding the Petitioner did 
not establish that they had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did they demonstrate they 
met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner 
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 
of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this 
matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is an oil and gas construction s ecialist who earned a master's degree in 
project management from thel University in 2010, and a bachelor's degree in 
mechanical engineering from University India) in 2005. He also holds related project 
management certifications. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met five of the regulatory 
criteria in the following categories: 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities; and 
• High salary or remuneration. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original contributions, leading 
or critical role, or high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meet each 
of the evidentiary criteria the Director declined to grant. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in the 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but not any of the remaining claimed classes of evidence. 
1 We note the appeal brief in this case was in excess of 190 pages, of which only a small portion is necessa1y to dispose of this 
appeal. The overwhelming majority of the appellate evidence was previously offered before the Director, and we gently note 
for the Petitioner that the documentation he submitted for the record before the Director continues to be present for the appeal 
and it is unnecessary to resubmit large amounts of previously submitted materials. Garey v. James S. Farrin, P.C., 35 F.4th 
917, 920 n. l (4th Cir. 2022) (imploring litigants to only submit the necessary amount of material on appeal in the interest of 
the environment and citing Theodore Seuss Geissel, The Lorax 23 (1971) ("I speak for the trees, for the trees have no 
tongues.")). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with the 
Director's decision. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirement here, is that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original. The 
plain language of this regulatory criterion also requires that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. See Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it 
has some meaning. See United States v. Campos-Serrano, 404 U.S. 293,301 n.14 (1971) (finding that 
if it is possible, statutory or regulatory language ought to be construed in its entirety to prevent any 
clause, sentence, or word from being rendered be superfluous, void, or insignificant); Inhabitants of 
Montclair Twp. v. Ramsdell, 107 U.S. 147, 152 (1883). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must 
have already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner provided several letters from those working in the petroleum industry and he further 
claims eligibility here based on copyright certificates, a certificate of excellence, a peer-reviewed 
published book, participation in oil and gas conferences, and contracts with companies using his 
"developed technology." The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. The Director noted the Petitioner did not provide supporting material to corroborate 
the claims of the letters' authors. Additionally, although acknowledging the Petitioner's published 
and peer-reviewed work as supporting the originality of his contributions, they determined his articles 
and research did not reflect this material was of major significance in the broader field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director overlooked much of the evidence he submitted. Even 
though the Petitioner's appeal brief lists the material he alleges the Director failed to evaluate in the 
decision, his appeal does not explain how this material-consisting of 166 pages-sufficiently 
satisfies this criterion's requirements. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). Commensurate with that burden is 
responsibility for explaining the significance of proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 
1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). 
Filing parties should not submit large quantities of evidence without notifying the appellate body of 
the specific documentation that corroborates their claims within such material, as doing so places an 
undue burden on the appellate body to search through the documentation without the aid of the filing 
party's knowledge. Toquero v. INS., 956 F.2d 193, 196 n.4 (9th Cir. 1992). A reviewing body is not 
3 
required to sift through the record to search for errors and build the appellant's argument before 
dismissing the appeal. Id.; Spear Mktg., Inc. v. BancorpSouth Bank, 791 F.3d 586, 599 (5th Cir. 2015); 
S.E. C. v. Thomas, 965 F.2d 825, 827 (10th Cir. 1992). The truth is to be determined not by the quantity 
of evidence alone but by its quality. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376 ( citing Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N 
Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
"[I]ssues adverted to in a perfunctory manner, unaccompanied by some effort at developed 
argumentation, are deemed waived." United States v. Warshak, 631 F.3d 266, 319 (6th Cir. 2010) 
(quoting Tolbert v. Queens College, 242 F.3d 58, 75 (2d Cir.2001)); see also McPherson v. Kelsey, 
125 F.3d 989, 995-96 (6th Cir. 1997). The Petitioner has essentially abandoned his claims under this 
criterion by not adequately presenting his arguments on appeal. Because the Petitioner has not 
satisfied his burden on appeal to inform us of how this significant amount of material should be applied 
to the regulatory requirements, we will not offer an in-depth discussion of his claims or the evidence. 
A brief review of the evidence and arguments advanced on appeal does not reveal that any of the 
Petitioner's activities have resulted in any significant impact on his broader field as a whole, as 
opposed to impacts on individual projects. The letters primarily discuss how he made improvements 
to particular projects or to operations within the companies that have employed him. And only one 
author of a support letter indicates he has relied on the Petitioner's work and implemented it within 
his company. However, what is lacking is an indication of how that has impacted the industry as a 
whole. It is also not apparent how the Petitioner's other achievements or works have resulted in a 
significant effect within the broader field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with that 
conclusion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. Ultimately, the leading or the critical role must be performed on 
behalf of the organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a subordinate group. 
See Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. 
May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535,545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for organizations or 
establishments as a whole. 
The Petitioner must demonstrate that the organizations or establishments have a distinguished 
reputation. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy reflects that organizations or 
establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (citing 
to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-
4 
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion as it relates 
to performing in a leading or in a critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility under two 
organizations: I I and I I 
The Petitioner relies on four letters on appeal as supporting evidence under this criterion. 
First, we discuss! !Whether this entity enjoys a distinguished reputation is a mandatory 
requirement. Regarding their reputation, the Petitioner provided his own account in correspondence, and 
in response to the Director's request for evidence he offered material about the organization from 
Wikipedia. With regard to information from Wikipedia, there are no assurances about the reliability of 
the content from this open, user-edited internet site. See United States v. Lawson, 677 F.3d 629, 
650-51 (4th Cir. 2012); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008); see also Sibanda 
v. Holder, 778 F.3d 676, 680 (7th Cir. 2015). The Wikipedia website even contains a disclaimer 
indicating it makes no guarantee of the validity of the information found on the site. Wikipedia: 
General disclaimer, Wikipedia (Dec. 9, 2022), 
https :// en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer. 
Although some of the letters the Petitioner provided, and his own filing statements, imply ___ 
might enjoy a distinguished reputation, the record lacks objective materials. Some examples might 
include but are not limited to prestigious awards, media coverage, or published rankings to 
demonstrate! I has a distinguished reputation. Also, we note the record lacks adequate 
evidence relating to the company's history in the industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not established I I enjoys a distinguished reputation, 1t 1s 
unnecessary that we offer a detailed analysis of the roles he has performed for them. Nevertheless, 
we offer a brief account. The Petitioner's roles at I 1 appear to be lower on the leadership 
spectrum as he was characterized as a "Project Management Professional" by I formerly the 
Construction Director of Global Technical Services at 11 I has not stated, nor has 
he described the Petitioner's duties or his performance in such a manner that the Petitioner can be said 
to have led the organization. The record does not establish the Petitioner performed in a leading role for I I Further, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that any subordinate entity ( e.g., individual 
projects, divisions, or departments) in which he led, themselves enjoyed a distinguished reputation. As a 
result, the Petitioner has not shown that he performed in a leading role for an organization or establishment 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Additionally, while his roles appear to have been leading or critical to individual projects, 
the record lacks evidence that those projects, either individually or collectively, resulted in any significant 
impact on the organization. And it is unclear from the record that the Petitioner's performance on the 
identified projects has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at (Appendices). Although 
we acknowledge his performance in some instances furthered his organization's broader business 
dealings, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that such incremental business arrangements rise to the level 
the regulation and USCIS policy requires. 
5 
Next, we consider whether the Petitioner has shown I I is a qualifying organization or 
establishment. Again, outside his own statements, the only evidence about this organization the 
Petitioner provided was an article about this entity originating from Wikipedia, which we noted above 
is not a reliable resource and does not satisfy his burden regarding this organization's reputation. As 
it relates to his role for this organization, the Petitioner provided a letter from a site manager who was 
the Petitioner's supervisor while he was a construction manager during the construction and 
pre-commission phase of a ______ production facility from 2006-2008. 
This former supervisor described the Petitioner's work as leading and critical on the single facility in 
India. Although the supervisor noted a novel idea the Petitioner proposed to increase I cash 
flow, the extent of this increase is not apparent from the letter, and we are unable to determine how 
critical those increased funds were to the organization's operations companywide. The evidence and 
the claims the Petitioner advances relating tol I are insufficient to satisfy the standard here. 
Although the Petitioner served in a managerial position on company projects, he has not submitted 
evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion noting his recent work as a senior technical 
services specialist for I I falls under the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook 
Handbook (Handbook) profile for Construction Managers. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion. Specifically, the Director found the Petitioner did not 
establish that the appropriate occupation in which to compare was that of Construction Managers. The 
Director noted the Petitioner's responsibilities exceeded what is normally associated with a 
Construction Manager and opined that it appeared a more appropriate comparison is an engineer in 
the oil and gas industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner simply disagrees with the Director's findings and offers a letter from the 
human resources department forl I This letter states the position the Petitioner occupies 
was created for those who transition from field engineering roles to a construction management role 
on promotion and it is "at par with Dy. Construction Manager in the general construction industry." 
First, neither the letter nor the Petitioner explain what a "Dy Construction Manager" position consists 
of Nevertheless, it appears they are implying that this is a general construction managerial position. 
Although we accept I I account regarding the similarities between the position the 
Petitioner previously occupied in their organization and construction managers in general, we find the 
letter to be insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's preponderance burden. The letter did not offer any 
job description for his position, much less a detailed explanation. Nor did it compare and contrast the 
responsibilities of the position the Petitioner occupied with the Construction Manager profile within 
the Handbook. At best, we have the Petitioner's andl I claims of the similarities, but this 
material lacks persuasiveness. 
A petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial burden of production, as well as the ultimate 
burden of persuasion. Matter ofY-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 n.3 (BIA 1998); also see the definition 
6 
of burden of proof from Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019) (reflecting the burden of proof 
includes both the burden of production and the burden of persuasion). Satisfying the burden of 
persuasion means the filing party must establish the degree to which their arguments and evidence 
should persuade or convince USCIS that the requisite eligibility parameters have been met (i.e., the 
obligation to persuade the trier of fact of the truth of a proposition). Dir., Office of Workers' Comp. 
Programs, Dep't of Labor v. Greenwich Collieries, 512 U.S. 267,274 (1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not met that burden, and as a result, he has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23092683 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jewelry maker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional evidentiary 
criteria. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), related to judging others' work and that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to 
artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional 
evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze below. While we may not discuss each piece of evidence 
individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.1 To evidence his eligibility under this criterion, the 
Petitioner provided a membership certificate signed by the head of administration for the I I 
Regional Administration of I !Association of People's Masters, Craftspeople and Artists of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan," which states that the Petitioner's membership certificate was for the 
"making of memorial wares," and was valid from October 2016 to October 2017.2 Accompanying the 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing for the requested benefit and must continue to be eligible for 
the benefit through its adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Similarly, we conclude that for a certificate to serve as 
evidence of eligibility under this criterion, it must have been valid at the time of filing and continue to remain valid through 
the adjudication of the petition. 
2 
certificate is a 2016 reference document, signed by the head of the and stating that 
since 2011, the Petitioner has been a member and specialist of the Department of 
I I Association ofl Region." 
To evidence how the Petitioner became a member of the association, he submitted a 2018 letter from the 
Chairman of the I Department ofl !Association, which states that the Petitioner has 
been a member of the I Association since 2008 and that he remains a current and full member 
of the association. The author explained that admission to the association is based upon the 
recommendations of the Art Experts Council, a group composed solely of nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in their respective fields of folk art. The letter further states that two specific 
internationally known art critics recommended the Petitioner for membership and that they based their 
recommendations upon the Petitioner's outstanding achievements as a master of I I traditional 
jewelry making. While the two art critics each provided letters explaining why they recommended the 
Petitioner for membership, neither critic describes any specific outstanding achievement(s) that enabled 
the Petitioner to become a member in the association. Instead, the authors praise the Petitioner's style 
and methods in jewelry making and then declare that he has outstanding achievement. The authors do 
not support their assertions with corroborating details about any specific outstanding achievement(s), 
rather they simply repeat the language found in the extraordinary ability regulations. Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fed in Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
In response to the Director's re uest for evidence RFE the Petitioner provided an additional letter from 
the "CEO of Republic of Uzbekistan" to suggest that the 
association has 1,200 members in a regional branch of thel I Union." However, the record 
does not reflect how many regional branches exist or whether the Union is the same as the I I Association or the I I District Department of Association. In the 
Petitioner's RFE response, he provided another letter from the CEO of which stated that the 
Petitioner was "elected to" the association, which does not necessarily support a finding that his 
membership was based on outstanding achievement. 
Notably, the evidence contains various names for the association without an explanation of its structure 
such that we can ascertain what the name variations represent. We cannot determine which name is the 
correct name or whether all the different names refer to the same entity.3 As the association's name is 
inconsistent throughout the record, we cannot determine in which association the Petitioner claims 
membership. In addition to inconsistencies in the name, the documents contain inconsistent dates for 
when the Petitioner became a member. The certificate stated that the Petitioner was a member from 
October 2016 to October 2017; the reference document stated that he has been a member since 2011; 
initial letters state that he has been a member since 2008; and a letter submitted in the RFE response stated 
that the Petitioner became a member in 2012. While the evidence suggests that the Petitioner's 
membership expired in October 2017, a 2018 letter conflicts with this information when it states that the 
3 To illustrate, the evidence includes numerous association names, including '•City Department of Department of 
region! I Association of artisans, Craftsmen and artists of Uzbekistan,"! Regional · · ·ation of 
Association of People's Masters, Crafts eople and Artists of the Republic of U zbekistan, 
Department of Association of Region," I I Association," 
Folk Artists, Republic of Uzbekistan," and Union." 
3 
Petitioner is a current and full member. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). However, even if the Petitioner had resolved the inconsistencies related to the association 
name and his membership dates, the record would still not support a finding that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of their members. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual 's work in the field.for which class(fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material.4 The Petitioner provided evidence of articles written about the Petitioner and his jewelry 
making in various media including the newspapers Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Business 
City, as well as the magazine, Tasvir. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the media sources 
represent professional or major trade publications or other major media. Where circulation or 
readership figures were provided, the Petitioner did not explain or show the significance of the figures 
such that they substantiate a finding that the media have major status or standing.5 
We acknowledge that Bukhara Okshomi claims a readership of 10,000, that it publishes twice a week, 
and that it circulates 2,000 printed copies, while Tasvir claims a readership of more than 10,000 people, 
and Business City claims a circulation of 10,000 to 20,000 copies per month. However, these are self­
reported figures from the newspaper's editor or publisher. The Petitioner did not support the record 
with independent, objective evidence conoborating the newspapers' claims. USCIS need not rely on 
the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. 
July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions on the 
cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of a major medium); see also, 
e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
Regarding Bukharian Times and Business City, the evidence suggests that their coverage of the 
Petitioner is self-promotional in nature, and that the Petitioner may have paid the newspaper to feature 
articles about him and his jewelry. The record contains evidence that both newspapers sell advertising 
space. For instance, the Bukharian Times lists various prices based upon the amount of space 
purchased, as well as for printing in black and white or in color. Similarly, as the Petitioner appears 
to have written the Tasvir article himself, we question whether advertisement space can be purchased 
in Tasvir as well. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling a foreign national's products 
or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published material about the foreign 
national.6 In addition, a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) considers the authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field, and as such, autobiographical material is generally not considered to be 
4 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 See id. (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 
about the foreign national. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
they have made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.7 In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided numerous letters from individuals 
in the Uzbekistan art community, including but not limited to letters from I I a museum art 
curator;I ) thel I "Department of the Art Authentication of the Ministry of Culture 
and Sports of the Republic of Uzbekistan in I I Region;" andl I and I I 
museum art directors. 
The authors of the letters praise the Petitioner for his ability to mix traditional and modern styles of 
jewelry, his "creative rethinking" and methods of jewelry making, and the uniqueness of his jewelry. 
However, the authors did not identify any specific original contributions the Petitioner has made in 
the field, nor did they provide detailed information explaining how the contributions have been 
majorly significant in the field. For instance, while the Petitioner's creativity as a jewelry maker may 
be a praiseworthy quality, the authors do not explain how this represents an original contribution in 
the field. In addition, the authors continuously repeat regulatory language and terminology without 
supporting their statements with specific detai Is or corroborating documentation. Most of these letters 
are similar in language such that we question whether they were independently written. The similar, 
oftentimes identical, wording strongly suggests a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner 
or Counsel.8 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and have impacted subsequent work add value.9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are less probative.10 Depending on the specificity, detail, 
and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a 
proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that: "We not only encourage, 
but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." 
Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 l&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
8 Cf. Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990). Here, the letters label the Petitioner's work as "major," 
"significant," or "original," but the authors do not substantiate their claims with details or examples. 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to reiterate that he has made original contributions in the field because 
he mixes tradition with modernity, his pieces have unique cultural meaning, and his jewelry and work 
demonstrate artistic excellence. However, as stated, neither the authors of the reference letters nor the 
Petitioner have substantiated these assertions with specific details or sufficient corroborative evidence. 
Further, even if the Petitioner's work in general could be considered an original contribution, the evidence 
does not support a finding of its significance in the field. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has made original contributions which have been of 
major significance in the field, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media."11 In general, scholarly work(s) should 
have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.12 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.13 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he authored several articles and two books containing content 
such as a biographical history of the Petitioner, an explanation of his materials and methods, a history 
ofl ljewelry, as well as numerous I photos r the Petitioner and his jewelry. The written 
materials provide general information about jewelry and offer an overview of the Petitioner's 
life, career, and methods. As such, the content does not support a finding that it is written for learned 
persons in the field. Furthermore, although one written work contains a list of references at the end 
of it, the written material itself does not include any indication of where in the work the Petitioner 
cited or used the claimed references. 
The Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish that his articles and books have 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In fact, the Petitioner has 
not provided sufficient evidence that his works have appeared in any media at all. We acknowledge 
the Petitioner claims that his articles appeared in Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Tasvir; 
however, this is insufficient to establish that that the Petitioner's written works appeared in any 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. To illustrate, the works include an 
initial or ending page that contains "published in" or "published by" type of information, the number 
of copies printed, other information about the publishing company and editor, or a letter from the 
editor. Nevertheless, it is not apparent from this evidence that the works actually appeared in any 
media, as opposed to simply being printed or published. 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
6 
In addition, as we previously discussed and incorporate here by reference, the record does not establish 
that Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Tasvir are professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. While the Petitioner provided a letter stating that his book is used as a tutorial in 
a public school, this is insufficient to establish that the book is either scholarly or published in a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. Further, the Petitioner has not explained 
how public school students would meet the definition of "learned" individuals in his particular field, 
such that his book could be considered scholarly. 
Although the Petitioner submitted an accompanying "review" for his written works, some of the 
reviews are no more than letters from an editor or publisher providing a brief summarization of the 
contents of the written work. Although the reviews of the Petitioner's books are longer, it is not 
apparent where the reviews of the books were published or that the books themselves were published 
and available for reading.14 In other words, the "reviews" themselves do not suggest that the material 
actually appeared in major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents an advisory opinion letter from I 
concerning the Petitioner's eligibility under the extraordinary ability criteria. Although 
a filmmaker and professor, speaks highly of the Petitioner and his work,I I opinion largely 
repeats the conclusions of others and frequently quotes documents already provided in the record. LJ I ldoes not present evidence or analysis that overcomes the deficiencies the Director identified 
in the decision. As a matter of discretion, we may use opinion statements submitted by the Petitioner 
as advisory. Matter of Caron Int'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, we will 
reject an opinion or give it less weight if it is not in accord with other information in the record or if it 
is in any way questionable. Id. We are ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought; the submission of expert opinion letters is 
not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. Here, lletter does not contain sufficient 
independent analysis, nor does he offer support for his conclusory statements. In addition, although 
he stated that through his academic history and professional experience as a filmmaker, he developed 
expert knowledge on how to analyze, evaluate, and characterize job duties, responsibilities, 
qualifications, and expertise, I I does not demonstrate knowledge ofl I artisanal 
crafts or jewelry making such that he would be qualified to offer his opinion on the Petitioner's 
eligibility. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
14 A review of one of the books comes from the "head of the I department of the Association of ___ 
and a review of another book comes from an "International expert of Center Handicraft Development," but there is little 
information to suggest where these reviews appeared. 
7 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20631716 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) or that she was coming to the United States to continue to work in her area of 
expertise. The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -first on the Petitioner's motion, and then 
treating the Petitioner's untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(2). 
The Director denied the petition both times. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, finding 
that while the Petitioner did meet three of the ten evidentiary criteria, she had not demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim or that she was at the very top of her field of endeavor at 
the time of filing or adjudication. We then dismissed the Petitioner's motion to reconsider for the 
same reasons. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not previously been submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original application. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Motions for the reopening or reconsideration of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same 
reasons as petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered 
evidence. See INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." See INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 110. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able 
to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the 
quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of 
evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of 
the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The first issue on motion is whether the petition should be reopened and approved based on new facts 
supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). On motion, the Petitioner provides two 
new letters of support from and ______ I singers who have 
received the immigrant visa classification that the Petitioner is requesting. The writers of these letters 
both state that the Petitioner is highly talented and prominent in thel I community 
and that since they received the requested benefit, the Petitioner should receive it as well since she is 
more famous than they are. 
Every visa adjudication applies existing law and policy to the specific facts of an individual case. The 
fact that the letter writers, like the Petitioner, are singers from I I does not establish that the 
specific circumstances of their cases were comparable to those of the Petitioner. Furthermore, a 
decision that was not published as a precedent does not bind U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3( c ). 
Additionally, the letters do not introduce new facts, as required at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We 
addressed the Petitioner's arguments and documentation regarding her popularity with the __ I I community in our prior decision, noting that this does not constitute the national or 
international level of acclaim required for the requested benefit. Since the remainder of the brief 
pertains to previously submitted evidence that was considered in our prior decisions, the Petitioner has 
not met the requirements of a motion to reopen, and the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The second issue on motion is whether our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at that time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). The brief submitted on motion states that our consideration of the Petitioner's 
achievements since arriving in the United States was unsupported by policy, since petitioners can 
apply for the requested visa classification while abroad. However, this misinterprets our prior 
decision. 
The relevant regulatory requirement is not that the Petitioner demonstrate achievements in the United 
States, but that they demonstrate that they have sustained a national or international level of acclaim, 
as required at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(l) of the Act, at the time of filing and through the time of 
adjudication. 11 Our prior decision stated that while the Petitioner enjoyed a successful career in 
her qualifying accomplishments dated from 2016 and earlier, and she had not maintained a 
qualifying level of acclaim through the time the petition was filed in 2018. The Petitioner had been 
residing in the United States for over a year at the time she filed the underlying petition and for over 
four years at the time of our prior decision. It was therefore appropriate to scrutinize her time in the 
1 An applicant or petitioner must establish that they are eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit 
request and must continue to be eligible through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
3 
United States to determine whether she continued to be at the very top of her field of endeavor. As 
noted in the USCIS Policy Manual, if a person was recognized for a particular achievement, USCIS 
should determine whether the person continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field 
of expertise since the person was originally afforded that recognition. A person may, for example, 
have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to maintain a comparable 
level of acclaim thereafter. See generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual A.l, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
The Petitioner also states that we erred by stating that she participated in the I movie I las an actor, since she was hired for the role based on her fame as a singer, which demonstrates 
her eligibility. Our prior decision addressed this argument and acknowledged the Petitioner's success 
in prior to moving to the United States. However, as previously explained, the record does 
not establish that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim through 2018, when she filed the 
underlying petition. The Petitioner participated inl I in 2015. Characterizing her role as a 
singing one instead of an acting one does not overcome the issue of her level of acclaim at the time of 
filing. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that letter of support demonstrates that our prior 
decision "misapplies the standards and criteria" for the requested benefit, sincel I 
received the requested benefit but believes the Petitioner to be more famous and deserving. We 
disagree. A motion to reconsider must show that our prior decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence on record at the time of our prior decision, and I letter was not part of that 
record. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Furthermore, as explained above, every visa adjudication is based on 
the individual circumstances of a particular case, and the record does not establish that I I case is comparable to that of the Petitioner. I I assessment of the 
Petitioner's fame in comparison to herself therefore does not establish that we misapplied any law or 
policy in our prior decision. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, the motion will be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23173147 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an embroiderer in the field of I embroidery, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
a brief and contends that he meets eight out of ten criteria and has sustained the required acclaim and 
has risen to the very top of his field. 
The Administrative Appeals Office reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). The petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an embroiderer in the field of I embroidery. The Petitioner has not 
indicated that he received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at 
least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner 
claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, which will be discussed below. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two criteria, relating to the scholarly articles and 
display criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six other criteria, relating to the 
lesser recognized prizes or awards, membership, published materials, judging, original contributions, 
and leading or critical role criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director's 
determination regarding the display criterion but do not agree with the Director's determination 
regarding the scholarly articles criterion. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on the receipt of: (1) UNESCO Award of 
Excellence for Handicraft Products in 2012; (2) The Best Artisan Award of hnitiative) in 
2012; (3) The Best Artisan of the Year Award of !(Initiative) in 2011; and (4) The People's 
Embroidery Award in 2018. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate issued as "the participant of the project -Quality Mark of 
craftmanship production in Central Asia" by UNESCO in 2012. The Petitioner also submitted 
information about UNESCO Award of Excellence in 2012 from the UNESCO website, which 
indicates that the UNESCO Award of Excellence was awarded to 188 handicraft products out of 407 
entries by artisans from Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The 
website also indicates that the A ward of Excellence program aims to ensure the continuation of 
traditional knowledge and skills and the preservation of cultural diversity in the region. 
The Petitioner submitted diplomas of 'The Best Artisan at Regional 
Initiative -2012 Contest" and "The Best Artisan the Year at Municipal Level of __ ___,(Initiative) -2011 Contest" issued to him b the President of the 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter fro Chairman of the Board of the 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry in ___ Region, which states that the criteria for selecting 
winners are the participant's (1) contribution to his or her sphere in the form of original goods and 
services, (2) participation in international exhibitions and expo, and (3) providing jobs. 
The Petitioner submitted a diploma of "The People's Embroidery 2018 
Creator" by the State Committee for Tourism Develo ment of the -The Best Embroidery 
and 
The I I Regional Headquarters of 
Petitioner also submitted a letter from I the Head of _______ in _ 
Region, which states that the People's Embroidery 2018 contest 1s open only to members of 
I I 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that the awards are given for excellence in the 
field of endeavor and that they are internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. However, the evidence does not establish that these awards are given for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. The 2012 UNESCO Award of Excellence was given to 188 handicrafts out of 407 
entries to ensure the continuation of traditional knowledge and skills and the preservation of cultural 
diversity in the region. In addition, the record does not contain national or international media 
coverage or other sufficient evidence demonstrating that the UNESCO award is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field of endeavor. With respect to the I award, participants 
must show that they contributed original goods and services, that they participated in international 
exhibitions and exports, and that they provided jobs. This selection criteria do not establish that the I laward is given to recognize excellence in the field of endeavor. The People's Embroidery 
2018 contest was open only to members of _______ Since this award is limited to 
members of the association and participants of the contest in 2018, the record does not reflect that this 
People's Embroidery award is nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 
Submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of awards is insufficient to meet the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) without documentary evidence reflecting that the prize or 
award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based upon his membershi in the I of Artisans, Craftsmen, and Folk Artists of the The record 
includes a membership certificate and letters fro__ m the Head of 
in __ Region. The letters state that the association is open only to "highly skilled masters who 
are among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art." The 
letters provide that the Petitioner's membership was recommended by I I and 
________ The record contains resumes forl and 
While the letters froml I contain language that mirrors the regulation, neither the author 
nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim that the 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution, bylaws, or other official 
documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional evidence that 
accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection process, 
conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 17 5 6, 
Inc. v. United States Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements). On appeal, instead of submitting additional evidence to corroborate 
his claims, the Petitioner submits a brief: repeating that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Moreover, although the record includes resumes for I I and I I the 
individuals whoJ asserts, recommended the Petitioner for membership in thel I I I the documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international 
experts in the field. I I resume indicates he was the head of two art museums and was a 
professor of museology and art history inl I and that his "scholarly articles and brochures" 
include two works on I embroidery. I I resume indicates she teaches tour 
guides inl land is a member of the organizing committee of thel I Festival. The 
resumes are not corroborated and insufficient to confirm that the individuals are qualifying experts in 
the field. Similarly, although! !claims thatl I and I I are 
nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or offered sufficient 
evidence in support of his statement. Finally, even assuming the submitted evidence demonstrated 
that I I andl I are experts in the field, comparing them to other members of 
the association is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the association 
may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that membership inl I requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
4 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner submitted an article he wrote about his journey as al !embroiderer, which was 
published in the magazine Tasvir. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
requires that the published material be "about" the Petitioner relating to his work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Articles authored by the Petitioner are not articles about the Petitioner relating 
to his work. The Petitioner also submitted an article about I I embroidery in America and the 
Petitioner as al I embroiderer residing in the United States, which was published in the 
newspaper Our Home Minnesota. The Petitioner also submitted an article about 2018 
Embroidery Competition in I which was published in the magazine Zar Tasvir Plus. This 
article in Zar Tasvir Plus briefly mentions the Petitioner, a young embroiderer from I as the 
first-place winner at the competition. Although the Petitioner is mentioned in the article, this article 
is not about the Petitioner relating to his work, but about the competition. 
The Petitioner submitted one published article about himself as al I embroiderer relating to his 
work but did not demonstrate that Our Home Minnesota as well as any of the other publications, Tasvir 
and Zar Tasvir Plus, are major media. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that the 
submitted articles were published in major media inl I The record contains information 
about magazine Tasvir from thel I website, which indicates that the circulation of the magazine 
is 40,000 copies. The record also contains a letter from the Chief Editor of the newspaper Our Home 
Minnesota, which states that the circulation of the newspaper is 4,000 printed numbers. The Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that based on the circulation data, these publications qualify as major media. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) for the reasons outlined below. 
5 
The record includes a letter from th the Head of _______ in ___ 
Region, which states that the association thanks the member of the association, the Petitioner, for 
participating at its 2011 I !exhibition fair. It notes that the Petitioner has participated in 
national and international exhibitions many times with his artistic products. However, the letter does 
not assert or establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of the work of others in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I the Head of ________ in 
I !Region, which states that the association thanks the Petitioner for "his help in determining 
craftsmen, artisans and painters, who were invited" to its 2014 ______ exhibition. This 
letter does not state in what manner the Petitioner provided help in determining what artists were 
invited to the exhibition. This letter does not establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of 
the work of others in the field. The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, 
either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). There is no evidence 
demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged the artwork and made final selections for the exhibition, 
rather than, for example, merely assisting with general administrative functions of the exhibition. 
Moreover, there is no documentary evidence showing the specific exhibitions judged by the Petitioner, 
the dates of his participation, and the names of the artists whose work he specifically selected. Merely 
submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner judged the work of others without evidence 
showing who he judged and their field of specialization is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
criterion. On appeal, instead of submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge for the 2014 I I exhibition sponsored by I the 
Petitioner submits a brief: repeating that the Petitioner served as a judge of the work of others at major 
exhibitions and showcases. There is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific 
assessments and the names of the artists whose work he evaluated. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner submitted letters froml I a K-12 art teacher, and _______ 
a fine artist and gallery coordinator. I and I I state that they are familiar with the 
Petitioner's work as an "accomplished! I embroiderer" and that the Petitioner has 
"made [a] contribution of major significance to this field by virtue of his mastery of 
embroidery techniques and by adaptation of these techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." 
In addition, they claim that the Petitioner's "use of the I technique as well as his ability to 
combine various! I styles in a single piece constitute a contribution of major significance in 
the field ofl I embroidery." I I also states that the Petitioner displayed his 
artwork at different art fairs in Minnesota and in other states. 
6 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I a K-12 art teacher, which states that the 
Petitioner's contributions "to the art of embroidery, decorative art, and cultural traditions of 
are of major importance as they have and will continue to influence the work of other 
artists." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that expert testimonials from leading experts in 
the Petitioner's field of endeavor demonstrate that the Petitioner's work is original and that he has 
made contributions of major significance to his field of endeavor. To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field ofl I embroidery. Major significance in the field may 
be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss the Petitioner's work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and 
appreciated, they do not explain how his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, 
consistent with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by others in the field. The 
documents in the record primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have 
already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based upon his articles about the history and 
importance of embroidery in I which was published in majorl I media, and a book 
titled published inl I The record includes copies of several pages of the book 
which lists the Petitioner as "developer." According to the letter froml I 
the Head of Publishing House, the book L I was published by the Petitioner, 
published in 350 copies, and distributed among regional libraries. The record also includes evidence 
that the Petitioner has authored three articles that were published in the newspaper! I 
and the magazine Education and Upbringing and presented at the 2014 Scientific-Practical 
International Conference of the Academy of Sciences of the 
7 
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he has not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. As defined in the academic arena, scholarly 
articles report on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have 
footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 1 For other fields, scholarly articles are written 
for learned persons in that field. 2 "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship," and learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a 
field. 3 Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the bookl and three articles, which 
are each between one and three pages in length, qualify as scholarly. There is no documentary 
evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's works were peer-reviewed, contain any references to 
sources, or were otherwise considered scholarly. Moreover, the record lacks evidence that other 
scholars have taken notice of the Petitioner's work. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Chief Editor ofl I stating that 
the circulation of lis 500 printed copies. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the 
Chief Editor of Education and Upbringing, stating that the magazine Education and Upbringing is 
published in 4,000 copies monthly. Finally, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Head of the 
Academy of Sciences, stating that its annual scientific international conference provides more than 
100 scientific articles in different areas and that all articles of the conference were published in one 
collection, with a circulation of 1,000 printed copies. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that based 
on the circulation data, these publications qualify as major media. In addition, he has not presented 
adequate documentation confirming they constitute either professional or major trade publications. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding reflects that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence 
establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) for the reasons outlined below. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
8 
The Petitioner claims that he has performed as an expert embroiderer a leading or critical role for 
Gymnastics, an artistic and rhythmic gymnastics training facility in Minnesota. The Petitioner 
submitted a letter froml lthe founder and Executive Director of Gymnastics, which 
states that the training facility needs talented masters who can create beautiful leotards for the girls on 
its artistic and rhythmic travel teams and that she is interested in engaging the Petitioner as a silk 
embroider based on his expertise in the field of traditional! I embroidery. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, repeating that Gymnastics has a distinguished 
reputation and that I hired the Petitioner to complete embroideries on the leotards. However, 
the letter froml I does not explain how the Petitioner's role as an embroiderer for the leotards 
was leading or critical to Gymnastics as a whole. The Petitioner did not provide an organizational 
chart or other similar evidence to establish how his role fits within the overall hierarchy of the 
organization. The letter does not specify how the Petitioner as an embroiderer for the leotards 
contributed to the organization in a way that is significant to the organization's outcome as a 
gymnastics training facility or what role he played in the organization's activities as a gymnastics 
training facility. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit any independent, objective evidence demonstrating thatD 
Gymnastics has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner did not submit, for example, documentary 
evidence distinguishing Gymnastics from other artistic and rhythmic gymnastics training 
facilities, so as to establish that it has a distinguished reputation as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
9 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090852 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), concluding that even though the Petitioner met at 
least three of the ten regulatory criteria, he did not establish he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor or that he has demonstrated sustained acclaim. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who plays the Venezuelan cuatro; a stringed instrument prevalent in Latin 
American folk music. His recent activities include work in advertising and performing in a series of 
concerts in the United States while here on his 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following 
six categories: 
• Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• High salary or remuneration; 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Participation as a judge; and 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
The Director decided the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, published 
material, judging, and leading or critical roles, but that he had not satisfied the remaining categories 
listed above. On appeal, the Petitioner no longer claims the display or high salary criteria, and he has 
abandoned those claims. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we are withdrawing the 
Director's favorable determinations on the awards and the published material criteria. The result is 
that the Petitioner will only satisfy two of criteria, but the regulation requires he meet three to proceed 
to a final merits determination. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on the following awards: 
• I I Award in 2015 for the Musician and Arranger of the Year; and • Award in 201 7 for the Best Musician and Cuatro Player of the Year. 
Within his correspondence to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the Petitioner 
referred to these awards as thd I A ward. He further provided a testimonial 
letter from another artist stating the Petitioner was twice the recipient of the I I award. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion. We conduct appellate 
review on a de nova basis. For the reasons outlined below, a review of the record of proceeding does 
not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing he meets the 
plain language requirements of this criterion and the Director's favorable determination on this issue 
is hereby withdrawn. 
First, we note the record neither corroborates the Petitioner's nor the author of the testimonial letter's 
contention that he received an award titled Award, or I I 
Although the testimonial letter claims the Petitioner is the recipient of multiple prestigious awards, he 
failed to provide evidence of those particular awards. The regulation and the petition's instructions each 
informed the Petitioner that his initial evidence requirements included evidence he was the recipient of 
prizes or awards. 
A testimonial letter from someone in the industry that is not corroborated by the primary evidence of the 
prize or award falls short of meeting the Petitioner's burden of proof that he received the specified award. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(2) (indicating only where the filing party demonstrates that primary evidence 
does not exist or cannot be obtained may they rely on secondary evidence, and only where secondary 
evidence is demonstrated to be unavailable may the petitioner rely on affidavits or letters). 
Unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a 
particular prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Second, even though the Petitioner provided the awards as presented in the above bullets, the 
supporting materials to demonstrate those accolades are nationally or internationally recognized do 
not contain a sufficient nexus to the specific awards he provided for the record. The media coverage 
the Petitioner provided relates to a recurring event that issues awards; the Awards. 
If it is the Petitioner's contention that any award emanating from this recurring event is adequate to 
satisfy this criterion, a prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition from the 
competition in which it is awarded, nor is it automatically derived from the individual or group that 
issued the award. Rather, national and international recognition results through the awareness of the 
accolade in the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident 
through specific means; for example, but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. 
3 
Absent from the record is evidence demonstrating his specific awards garnered national or 
international recognition within his field of endeavor. Additionally, the Petitioner did not offer more 
general coverage relating to his specific awards (the Musician and Arranger of the Year and the Best 
Musician and Cuatro Player of the Year) originating from national or international media. 
We also note some conflicting information within the evidence relating to the history of the awardin 
entit . The Petitioner rovided a translated letter from l the presidenn t of 
This is the entity that oversees the A ward 
events . letter and the article from El Universal each reflect the award event was created 
50 years ago. The article from La Nata Latina reflects the award event has 61 years of history. While 
these inconsistencies do not fully undermine the Petitioner's claims, he should be prepared to address 
or remedy the incongruent information in any future filing. 
As the Petitioner has not adequately established his awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized, he has not satisfied all of this criterion's requirements and we withdraw the Director's 
favorable determination as it relates to this regulatory provision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided six forms of evidence. The Director determined the Petitioner met the 
requirements of this criterion. We do not agree that any one form of evidence satisfies all of this 
criterion's requirements, and we will withdraw the Director's favorable determination. 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary requirements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the 
published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to his work in the field 
under which he seeks classification as an immigrant. The published material must also appear in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Professional or major trade publications 
are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. To qualify as major media, the Petitioner must 
establish the circulation statistics are high relative to other similar forms of media. The final 
requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if the 
published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
We begin by noting issues with the evidence relating to the Petitioner's most significant claim relating 
to published material about him and his work, from "Billboard Venezuela Magazine and Online." 
First, the original document is not the article itself and it appears the Petitioner copied the text and 
pasted it onto a Word document, then provided the URL and some other related information. We were 
unable to verify the article exists relying on the URL, and additional efforts to confirm the article's 
existence did not result in a discovery of any articles about the Petitioner on the Billboard website. 
Additionally, when performing the copy and paste action, it appears they did not capture the full article 
as the text stops mid-sentence. Furthermore, the English translation is not a full translation of the 
4 
article as it begins mid-sentence. It also does not contain the title, date, and author as the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires. Finally, the Petitioner provided the website traffic information 
for the billboard.com website for the United States and not for Venezuela, and he did not offer 
evidence relating to the "billboard.com.ve"-".ve" for Venezuela-country top-level domain name as 
the evidence reflected. We conclude this evidence does not satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
Now, we tum to the coverage from the publication Iberoeconomia Espana en positive. This evidence 
is in the form of an article, it contains a title and a date, but no author, which is required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Additionally, this was originally a foreign language website, 
and the site does not appear to be an English version sponsored and translated by the website. This 
raises questions with regard to the manner in which the evidence was translated. Moreover, it is not 
accompanied by a certified translation that complies with the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). 
Focusing on the circulation statistics for this publication, we observe that the article is from October 
2018 and the Petitioner provided the website traffic data from an unspecified source indicating the 
website receives approximately 88,000 monthly visits. USCIS policy discusses the requirements for 
published material under this criterion stating that it should "establish that the circulation ( on-line or 
in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit other circulation statistics in 
which to compare with this publication. Without demonstrating the author of the article, establishing 
it was properly translated, and that the publication's circulation statistics were high compared to 
similar publications, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish the Iberoeconomf a 
Espana en positive constitutes major media. 
Next, the Petitioner offers two online articles from Factores de Poder. Both articles contain the title, 
date, and author and both are about the Petitioner and are related to his work. However, these articles 
do not satisfy all of the criterion's requirements because the Petitioner has not demonstrated it is a 
form of major media. The Petitioner provided a printout from Similar Web reflecting a country rank 
of 3,242, NIA for the category rank, and in illegible category title with an associated number of 
approximately 118,000. The evidence relating to both articles is poorly photocopied, and we are 
unable to determine what the 118,000 figure represents. This fails to satisfy the Petitioner's burden 
of proof as he has not demonstrated this publication's circulation is high compared to other circulation 
statistics. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendices). 
As the fifth form of evidence, the Petitioner offers an advertisement for a musical performance that 
appeared in the El Universal print newspaper. Although this content appeared in a newspaper in 
I 12007, it is among a collection of advertisements for upcoming music and food events. The 
material lists the company that is putting on the event, the Petitioner and some of his songs, other 
artists he has performed with in the past, and the location, date and time of the event. Advertisements 
and announcements for shows and productions that simply list the Petitioner as one of the performers 
are not "published material" consistent with the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Additionally, this material is lacking an author, first of which it does not comply 
with this criterion's stated requirements, and second the absence of an author supports the view that it 
5 
1s not published material consistent with the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The final form of evidence the Petitioner claims is an interview on Vive TV. According to the certified 
translation of the Certificate,! the General Producer of Vive TV provided the URL where 
the content appears on Y outube. The interview was performed in a foreign language. The Petitioner 
only provided transcripts of the interview in the English language, but no original version in Spanish, 
and no certified translations. This material therefore does not satisfy the regulatory requirements 
relating to foreign language evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
Regarding Vive TV as a form of major media, I I letter reflects this entity broadcasts in 
Venezuela, but the record lacks any evidence of viewership, and the Petitioner did not offer evidence 
of other broadcasters in which to compare. While Vive TV may exist as a broadcast channel, the fact 
that it is broadcast over the airwaves or on cable does not establish its qualification as major media. 
For instance, a local high school or other local organization may broadcast programs on local access 
television, but the simple act of airing programs did not transform those shows into a form of major 
media. Were we to compare viewership ratings of local access programs to most productions of the 
major networks, we would draw stark contrasts in the number of viewers each medium receives. We 
therefore conclude the submitted evidence does not show a comparison to other television channels in 
Venezuela, and absent that evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his television interview 
appeared in a form of major media. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices). 
Finally, I I letter also provides a link to the interview on Y ouTube. The fact that the 
Petitioner's interview is available on Y ouTube is not persuasive that this is published material in major 
media. The internet in general and Y ouTube in particular are arenas available to any user with access 
to a computer regardless of notoriety or recognition in the arts. To ignore this reality would be to 
render the "major media" requirement in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) meaningless. 
International accessibility on the internet by itself is not a realistic indicator of whether a given website 
constitutes "major media" published material. 
We conclude the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's favorable determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Director granted four criteria and we have withdrawn two of those, the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the plain language requirements of at least three criteria. Although he claims eligibility for 
two additional criteria on appeal, relating to judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and performing in a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(viii), it is unnecessary for us to reach 
a decision on these additional criteria because he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) 
(finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of 
the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
He therefore has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
instance, the Petitioner received two awards during a career spanning almost two decades, and he only 
provided information relating to the event that issues those accolades. 
However, the record lacks confirmation that his particular awards themselves received national or 
international attention. Considering the Petitioner's career is approaching two decades, such a showing 
of only two awards within a three-year span, that lack adequate recognition, does not represent sustained 
acclaim at the national or international level. Additionally, a small number of awards that are not among 
those that are highly regarded in the field do not amount to examples of extensive documentation of the 
Petitioner's accolades nor are they achievements that are commensurate with the small fraction of awards 
or prizes at the top of the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23841303 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a juris doctorate tax consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets any of the eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), that she is 
seeking to enter the United States to continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability, or that her 
area of extraordinary ability falls under one of the categories at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a juris doctor tax consultant who indicates that she intends to continue this career in 
the United States. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner does not meet any of the criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the following criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her receipt of the Order of Barristers 
National Award and the President's Award Kenya. 
The record indicates that the Beneficiary was inducted into the Order of Barristers National Honor 
Society, rather than receiving an Order of Barristers National Award. As such, we will discuss her 
claims under the "membership" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner's letter of support indicates that the President's Award Kenya was awarded for her 
community service and charitable advocacy. The record does not contain any supporting 
documentation about this award's selection criteria. As there is no indication that this is an award for 
excellence the field of law, it does not meet the plain language of this criterion, which requires the 
award or prize to be for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner has not established that she received lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes for excellence in her field of endeavor. Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion due to her membership in the Order of 
Barristers National Honor Society and in Pi Sigma Alpha, the National Political Science Honor 
Society. The Director determined that because these are academic honor societies restricted to 
students, they are not associations in the Petitioner's field that require outstanding achievements of 
their members. On appeal, the Petitioner disputes this conclusion and states that members of the legal 
profession can also gain membership in the Order of Barristers. 
The Petitioner's initial cover letter describes Pi Sigma Alpha as an honor society for students of the 
political and social sciences, rather than the Petitioner's field of endeavor, which is law. The letter 
from the executive director of Pi Sigma Alpha states that entry for undergraduate students requires the 
completion of a certain number of academic credits in political science, including at least one upper­
level course, with an average grade of B or above, as well as an overall grade point average that is in 
the top third of their class. Furthermore, the Pi Sigma Alpha website printout indicates that individual 
chapters of the society are not permitted to "impose any non-academic requirements" for entry and are 
"discouraged from imposing any requirement that involves subjective evaluation." Taking certain 
college courses and maintaining a certain grade point average are not extraordinary achievements 
judged by nationally or internationally experts in the field of law. The Petitioner's membership in Pi 
Sigma Alpha does not qualify for this criterion. 
Membership in Order of Barristers National Honor Society is similarly based on law school student 
achievement, honoring law students who excel in moot court activities. The support letter from the 
Order of Barristers states that the only mandatory requirement for membership is that the students 
participate in law school moot court programs or teaching programs for brief writing and/or oral 
advocacy. While the Petitioner states on appeal that membership in the Order of Barristers is not 
restricted to law students, she is seeking to qualify for this criterion based on her membership in the 
Order of Barristers National Honor Society, which is based on student achievements. The evidence 
does not establish that this society requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
The support letter from of the University ofl I College of Law states 
that students are nominated for membership in the Order of Barristers National Honor Society through 
a poll of third-year students, followed by an evaluation by faculty members. The letter is accompanied 
byl !faculty profile, which indicates that she has worked as a law school professor 
but does not indicate that she is a nationally or internationally recognized expert in the field of law or 
courtroom advocacy. This does not establish that the achievements of members of this society are 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the Petitioner's field. 
Because the record does not establish that Pi Sigma Alpha or the Order of Barristers National Honor 
Society require their members to have outstanding achievements in the field of law or that those 
achievements are judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field of law, the 
Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on articles on the websites of her law 
school, a law firm, and Court News Ohio, as well as a county newspaper in Ohio. 
First, the articles provided are not about the Petitioner and her work in the field oflaw. For example, 
the article from Court News Ohio is about a bar admissions ceremony for 600 new attorneys in Ohio 
and quotes the Beneficiary as one member of this group. Similarly, the law firm article is a press 
release congratulating all of the winners of a competition for first-year law students, and the county 
newspaper article is an announcement of the winners of a scholarship. These are not published 
materials about the Petitioner and her work in her field. 
Second, while Court News Ohio, a service of the Supreme Court of Ohio, may be a professional 
publication in the field of law, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's law school website, 
the law firm website, or the county newspaper constitute professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. While the Petitioner's brief states that any website or newspaper available to the 
public is a "professional trade publication," she provides no documentation to support this claim. 
Given that posting information online for general public consumption is a standard practice for 
organizations such as universities, law firms, and newspapers, the Petitioner's interpretation of the 
regulation would render the "major media" requirement meaningless, and we decline to adopt it. The 
Petitioner has not submitted independent, objective evidence showing that these publications are 
"professional trade publications" or other major media. 1 
The Petitioner has not submitted published material in professional or trade publications or other major 
media which is about her work in the field oflaw. Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her role as for 
Human Rights Quarterly (HRQ), an academic journal in the field of international law, and as the I I for the Moot Court Honor Board at her law school. 
According to her briefs, the Petitioner conducted peer review of articles published at HRQ while acting 
as a staff member and later as itsl I However, the letter from . 
______ of HRQ, only states that she was "responsible for overseeing a law student staff of 
60." The HRQ website states that its student editorial staff acts as "articles editors," but does not 
indicate whether they perform peer review duties. This does not establish that the Petitioner conducted 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (stating that evidence of professional or major trade publications or other major 
media should establish a high viewership or readership as well as who the intended audience is). 
4 
peer review while working at HRQ or that her work there constituted a formal designation in a judging 
capacity.2 
Similarly, while the Petitioner states in her initial cover letter that she acted as a judge in moot court 
competitions while with the Moot Court Honor Board, the supporting documentation only states that 
members of the board organize, administrate, and compete in moot court competitions. 
The Petitioner has not established that she participated as a judge of the work others in the same or an 
allied field. She does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her article in the Immigration and 
Human Rights Law Review. 
To support her claim that her article constitutes an original contribution of major significance, the 
Petitioner provides website printouts from PlumX Metrics indicating that the article has been 
downloaded 1,338 times since it was published and has 1,766 "usage." The documentation provided 
does not explain what "usage" means in this context. The Petitioner also provides a printout from 
Google Scholar indicating that her article has been cited once. While a substantial number of citations 
of a person's scholarly work as authoritative in the field may help establish the significance of their 
contribution to their field, 3 one citation is not considered a substantial number. The evidence does not 
establish what influence or impact the Petitioner's article has had on her field. 
The Petitioner has not established that her article has been of major significance to her field. 
Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on an article she published in the 
Immigration and Human Rights Law Review. The Director found that she had not established that 
her article was actually published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her previously-submitted evidence demonstrates her eligibility for 
this criterion. 
The record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's article, which indicates that it is scholarly in nature 
and that it was "accepted for inclusion in Immigration and Human Rights Law Review by an 
authorized editor at University of I I College of Law Scholarship and Publications." The 
documentation includes the volume and issue number and a recommended citation format for the 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence (stating that peer review in a scholarly journal may be evidenced by a request from the journal for such a review 
as well as proof that the review was completed). 
3 Id. 
5 
article. We therefore find that the Beneficiary published her article in a professional publication and 
withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. 
However, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in the plural. Because the Petitioner has only published 
one scholarly article, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her role as at 
HRQ. However, the evidence does not contain sufficient information about this position or its duties 
to establish that she led HRQ or a department or division of it or that her role was significantly 
important to the outcome ofHRQ's activities.4 
According to the letter of support froml I the Petitioner's role at the journal consisted 
of "overseeing a student staff of 60." While the letter states that selecting an exceptional I I I I is "critical" for the journal, it does not provide further information about the Petitioner's duties, 
her place in the journal's overall organizational structure, or how her role was significant to the 
journal's outcomes. We further note that the information provided about this journal by its publisher, I I University, indicates that its editor-in-chief is _____ and does not mention 
the Beneficiary or her position as It It is not apparent from this evidence how the 
Petitioner's role for HRQ was leading or critical. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that HRQ is an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. The Google Scholar printout provided with the initial evidence states that HRQ is ranked 
10th of 20 existing journals in the field of international law. While the printout from the publisher's 
website states that HRQ is "widely recognized as the leader in the field of human rights," an 
organization's recognition and reputation come from how it is seen by others. Therefore, a 
publication's assertions do not suffice to demonstrate its reputation in the field. The record does not 
establish that HRQ has a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the Petitioner to 
perform in a leading or critical role for "organizations or establishments" in the plural. The Petitioner 
here has only submitted evidence relating to one organization, and so does not meet this criterion. 
B. Other Issues in the Director's Denial 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not established that she either has a one-time achievement or 
meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Since this issue is dispositive of the 
appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Director's determinations that the Petitioner's area 
of extraordinary ability does not fall within the scope of section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and that 
she is not seeking to enter the United States to continue to work in this area. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence. 
6 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision 
of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted documentation of her achievements in 
college and law school but has not demonstrated that these achievements have translated into a level 
of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17933004 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 9. 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant pathology researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We then dismissed the appeal and 
two subsequent motions. The matter is now before us on a third motion filing. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence ofnew facts. The requirements of amotionto reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. Additionally, a review of any motion is limited to the bases 
supporting the prior adverse decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Thus, we examine any new 
arguments and facts to the extent that they pertain to our dismissal of the Applicant's second motion 
filing. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original 
contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because he met the 
minimum of at least three criteria, the Director made a final merits determination and found that the 
Petitioner did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. On appeal, we conducted a de novo 
review of the proceeding and determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two criteria, judging and 
scholarly articles, and we withdrew the Director's findings for the original contributions of major 
significance and leading or critical role criteria. As the record did not establish that the Petitioner 
complied with at least three criteria, we deemed it unnecessary to provide a final merits determination. 
In his first motion filing, the Petitioner indicated in part 2 on Notice of Appeal or Motion (Fonn I-
290B), that he was filing a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider of the Director's decision. 
Specifically, he indicated: "Form I-140" (item 2, USCIS Form for the Application or Petition That is 
the Subject of This Appeal or Motion), i (item 3, Receipt Number for the 
Application or Petition), "EB-1" (item 4, Requested Nonimmigrant or Immigrant Classification), 
"02/15/2019" (item 5, Date of Adverse Decision), and "Nebraska Service Center" (item 6, Office That 
Issued the Adverse Decision). The Petitioner's responses to the questions in part 2 on Form I-290B 
reflected his filing of combined motions on the Director's decision rather than on our appellate 
decision. In his second motion, which was filed seven days after his first motion filing, the Petitioner 
stated that "[t]oday we discovered that we had used a Form I-290B that had an expiration date of 
02/04/2020" and submitted a more current edition of Form I-290B with the same responses as the 
prior Form I-290B. Again, the included USCIS form, petition receipt number, decision date, and 
office reflected the Petitioner's filing of combined motions on the Director's decision rather than on 
our appellate decision. 
We dismissed both motions as untimely filed because the motions were submitted 3 5 7 and 3 64 days, 
respectively, after the issuance of the Director's decision.1 In the current motion, the Petitioner asserts 
that "it is an immense and obvious Service error was that USCIS assumed that the motion which was 
the subject of this Dismissal Order referred to reviewing the I-140 decision to deny, rather than the 
appellate decision to deny the appeal."2 However, we did not assume that the motion filings were 
based on the Director's decision denying the petition. Rather, we adjudicated the Petitioner's motions 
based on his responses to the items in part 2 of Form I-290B, which indicated motion filings on the 
1 The Petitioner submits two copies ofthe same decision claiming that "[t]he Notice ofDismissal in Appendix A apparently 
refers to both filings." However, the record reflects that we issued two separate decisions on the same day for each motion 
filing I I andl 
2 The Petitioner also claims that"[v ]ery clearly the I-140form was whatwas being denied on 01/16/2020." On thecontm1y, 
the Director denied FormI-140on February 15, 2019, and we dismissed the appeal(Form I-290B) on January 16, 2020. 
2 
Director's decision denying the underlying petition. 3 Specifically, as indicated above, the Petitioner 
responded on his Form I-290B that he was filing a motion on his "Form I-140" rather than on his Form 
I-290 (appeal), that the receipt number was I (Form I-140) rather than I (Form I-290B), that the adverse decision was "02/15/2019"ratherthan O 1/16/2020 
(the date of our decision dismissing the appeal), and that office that issued the adverse decision was 
the "Nebraska Service Center" rather than the AAO. Accordingly, we adjudicated his motion filings 
based on his responses that conesponded to the Director's decision. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that Form I-290B was "only designed to appeal a denied PETITION 
OR APPLICATION" (emphasis in original), and the form makes it "impossible" to file a motion on 
an appellate decision. The Petitioner, however, did not conoborate his assertions with independent, 
objective evidence. Fmihennore, the regulations and filing instructions do not support his claims. 
Every fonn, benefit request, or other document must be submitted and executed in accordance with 
the form instructions. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l ). The instructions for FormI-290B states that the primary 
purpose is to file "[a]n appeal with the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)" or "[a] motion with the 
[USCIS] office that issued the latest decision in your case (including a field office, service center, or 
the AAO )" ( emphasis added). 4 Furthermore, the instructions for part 2 indicate to" [p ]rovide the name 
of the office that issued the decision that is the subject of your appeal or motion. If you are filing a 
motion on an AAO decision, the correct office is 'Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)"' 
( emphasis added). As demonstrated, the purpose of Form I-290B is not only to appeal denied petitions 
or applications but also to file motions on field office, service center, and AAO decisions. In addition, 
the instructions for part 2 of Form I-290B specifically address the filing of motions with the AAO. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conectly adjudicated the Petitioner's combined motion filing 
based on the inf ormation provided by him. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that we erred in 
dismissing his combined motions as untimely filed as a matter of law or policy under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). Furthermore, the Petitioner did not present new facts or establish how his inability to 
follow form instructions and properly complete form items would warrant reopening the proceeding 
under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish that we inconectly applied law or policy. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate new facts in order to reopen the proceeding. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 We retained jurisdiction over the combined motion filings of the Director's decision because we made the latest decision 
dismissingthe Petitioner's appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(ii). 
4 We note thatuscis.govrepeats to use Forml-290Bto file "[a]na ppeal with the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)or 
"[a] motion with the USCIS office that issued the la test decision in your case (including a field office, service center, or 
theAAO)." 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19589339 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 11, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an opera singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Applicant earned a Bachelor of Music degree at the I in .c===J. in his native Russia. A founding member of the I Choir o he he sang with that organization before moving to Germany to work on · Master of 
Music degree, m opera performance, at the m He later 
earned a second master's degree in choral conducting at University in __ 
where he now resides. When he filed the petition, he was studying for a Doctor of Musical 
Arts Degree from the University! he has since earned that degree. The record 
documents his artici ation in some high-profile projects, including a Grammy-nominated recording 
of the opera recorded while he was a graduate student in Germany. He is now the 
musical director of tw organizations : I I andl I Christian 
Church! 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
1 The Petitioner is currently in the United States in O-1 nonimmigrant status. We acknowledge that this status relates to 
extraordinary ability. Nevertheless , the record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and 
we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding , or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different definitions 
and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant O-1 category means 
distinction . 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Petitioner further claimed that his "important place in the growing Russian community in" 
constitutes comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two of the claimed criteria, relating to participation 
as a judge, and artistic display. The Director also determined that the Petitioner had not established 
that the standard criteria do not readily apply to his occupation, such that he could submit comparable 
evidence instead. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets two further criteria, relating to published material, and 
leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations. 2 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding the criterion pertaining to prizes or awards, or the comparable evidence clause, 
and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 3 
Upon review of the record, as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the criteria relating to published material and leading or critical roles. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the published material should be about the beneficiary, relating to his or her work 
in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 
Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the beneficiary's products or promoting his or her 
services are not generally considered to be published material about the beneficiary. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 ( appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner has submitted several articles from various publications. In denying the petition, the 
Director concluded that some of the articles are not about the Petitioner, relating to his work in the field, 
and that others had not been shown to be professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that qualifying articles appeared in five outlets, described below. The 
Petitioner maintains that these articles appeared in major media, but review of the record shows that the 
materials are deficient for other reasons. 
A 2017 review of I I an opera in which the Petitioner preformed, in the Austin Chronicle 
mentions the Petitioner only once in the text of the over 500-word article, and once in the caption to a 
2 Had the decision reached a final merits detennination, we would have discussed whether or not the evidence meeting 
these criteria is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
photograph. Likewise, the Boston Globe's 500-word review of a 2016 performance of the opera 
mentions the Petitioner only once in the text and once in a caption. These articles are not published 
material about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about individual performers in 
that show). 
The Harvard Crimson, also reviewing! I mentions the Petitioner by name five times. One of those 
mentions is to identify the character he played, and another is to clarify that the Petitioner is not related 
to a cellist with a similar surname. The three substantive mentions of the Petitioner appear in one 
paragraph of the nine-paragraph, 1165-word review; the Petitioner is not the main subject, or one of 
several co-equal subjects, of the article. 
I lradio station ran a feature about the local I in early 2020. The 
record indicates that is a college radio station "on the University! I campus." The Petitioner 
notes that I lis affiliated with National Public Radio (NPR)," but the Petitioner does not establish 
that NPR broadcast the feature on other stations, or tha by itself, is a qualifying media outlet. 
A transcript indicates that the 20-minute segment consisted of interviews, mostly with the founder and 
director of the concert series, and performances of three songs, two of which featured the Petitioner ( one 
solo, one in a duet); the remaining song was a solo performance by another individual. The Petitioner's 
own performances are not published material about his work; other regulatory criteria cover artistic 
performances. Apart from the songs, the transcript indicates that the Petitioner spoke four times over the 
course of the 20-minute segment. The segment was primarily about the festival, rather than any of the 
individual participants therein. 
Of the articles discussed on appeal, only one focuses on the Petitioner. The Houston Chronicle published 
an article in 2018, previewing a then-upcoming chamber music concert. The article does not identify its 
author as the regulation requires. The uncredited article is undeniably about the Petitioner, but without 
further clarification and evidence, it more resembles marketing than journalism and does not meet the 
regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not established that his performances have attracted media attention beyond what 
appear to be routine local preview publicity and post-performance reviews. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has claimed leading or critical roles at a number of organizations. The Petitioner's 
arguments on appeal are limited to three of these organizations, discussed below. The Petitioner has not 
alleged error with regard to two other initially claimed organizations. 
From 2000 to 2007, the Petitioner was I I soloist and onductor of the 
Choir inl I Russia. In the area, the Petitioner has served as the music 
director of lsince 2015, and o ____ since 2016. The Director acknowledged that these 
roles are, or were, leading or critical, but determined that the Petitioner had not established that these 
4 
organizations have a distinguished reputation ( or had such a reputation during the Petitioner's 
involvement). 
The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor. Rather, the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (appendix). 
The Petitioner, on a ea! cites reviousl submitted letters from the general director and principal 
conductor of the Choir (who studied alongside the Petitioner a 
; the founder and general director of land two officials o 
While these officials can attest to the nature of the Petitioner's roles within their respective organizations, 
their unsupported assertions about their own organizations are not sufficient evidence to establish the 
reputations of those organizations. 
The choir director's letter indicates that the ________ Choir has toured Europe and 
recorded, but the record does not establish that these activities are limited to choirs with a distinguished 
reputation, or that the performances and recordings have themselves brought distinction to the choir. As 
the Director noted in the denial notice, the record contains recent evidence showing the choir has attracted 
some attention and recognition, but all of this evidence dates from after the Petitioner left the organization 
in 2007. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that the choir had a distinguished 
reputation at the time he performed in a leading or critical role there. 
The Petitioner cites statistics about the religious denomination to which I belongs. The Petitioner, 
however, does not claim a leading or critical role for the entire denomination, and the size or scope of the 
denomination does not imply that any one church within the denomination has a distinguished reputation. 
Regardinel itself, the Petitioner asserts that "the church is very well known in the community for 
its strong musical program and concerts." Media stories documented in the record are limited to local 
coverage, announcing then-upcoming events. The Petitioner has not shown that this coverage 1s 
qualitatively or quantitatively different from that afforded to other area churches. 
Resubmitted copies of letters from a I I board member and an associate minister show that large 
portions of the two letters have identical, or very similar, wording, including parts that purport to represent 
their individual perspectives (for example, "[t]hroughout my career I have seen many Music Directors," 
and "I had the privilege of first meeting [the Petitioner] when in 2015 he accepted the position of Music 
Director at I _ The identical language in the submitted letters undermines their probative 
value. Identical language in letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and 
calls into question the persuasive value of the letters' content." Hamal v. US. Dep 't of Homeland 
Security, No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
The Petitioner submits copies of Houston Chronicle articles about I I The general focus of 
these articles is the effect that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the group's ability to mount 
productions. The articles do not show thatl has attracted significant recognition beyond 
the local area, or that it has a distinguished reputation in comparison to other opera companies. 
5 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that he has 
performed in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim, or which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Instead, the record shows a predominantly 
local reputation. The evidence submitted does not support the claim that the Petitioner has reached 
the top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19809940 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial management business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a mathematical 
researcher, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context 
of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManuaLhtml (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extra ordinary ability under section 2 03(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the 
Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received a bachelor of Sf ieuce from University 
in 2011 and a doctor of philosophy from the University ofl _I in 2016. In addition, the 
Beneficiary served as a research fellow and lecturer at the I _ the University of 
from2016 to 2018. Moreover, the Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as a 
mathematical researcher since 2019. As indicated above, the Director determined thatthe Beneficiary 
reviewed a few papers, authored some scholarly material, and serves in a critical position while being 
compensated at a higher rate by the Petitioner. However, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Beneficiary participated in reviewing five papers for three journals and two 
conferences. However, the Petitioner did not establish that these instances place the Beneficiary 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner 
did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's review experience compares to others at the very 
top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these five judging events, occurring approximately 
within four years from filing of the petition, contributes to a finding that the Beneficiary has a career 
of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for 
instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from the field based on his work reviewing 
journal and conference papers. Moreover, participating in the peer review process does not 
automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in 
his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review 
requests relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providingBlack's Law Dictionary's definitionof"sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCI S officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to detennin e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high leve I of expertise 
of the immigrantclassification). 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained nationalorintemationalacclaim). 
3 
chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's peer review experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automaticallyplace one at the top of the field. 5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored three journal 
articles and four conference papers. 6 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary's publication record of seven documents in a six-year timeframe, with his most recent 
occurring approximately two years ago, is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and 
sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of1he 
Act. The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability 
is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation 1han 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the Beneficiary's authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the 
significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his publications compare to others who are 
viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence ofhis written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other 
mathematical researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
Here, the record contains a few reference letters that briefly describe the Beneficiary's past research 
projects while pursuing his higher education but do not elaborate and explain any attention that he 
received from the field based on his written work and research. For instance,! I 
discussed the Beneficiary's research project that he presented at an A1iificial Intelligence in Statistics 
conference and described it as "insightful and unique"; however,1 ldid not indicate any 
impact it had on the field or whether the Beneficiary garnered any significant notoriety from other 
mathematical researchers or statisticians. Furthermore,! opined that the Beneficiary's 
"work has generated widespread commentary, in particular for its impact on the fields of statistics, 
machine learning and digital humanities" and broadly claimed that his "research has been cited 
numerous times by other leading authors, whose works are also published [in] prestigious journals." I I did not provide specific information, such as identifying the authors, papers, and publications 
that cited to the Beneficiary's research or the number of citations to each of the Beneficiary's published 
works, and explain how those citations sufficiently demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent attention at a level 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra,at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicativeofbeingoneofthat small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 The record contains threeadditionalarticles indicating the Beneficiary's authorship; however, neither the Petitionernor 
the material shows anypublication. 
4 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's written or presented material garnered him 
any national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not 
submit corroborating citatory documentation or other evidence consistent with a very high standard 
requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required for lesser 
classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Further, the Petitioner did not show that the field has been 
influenced by the Beneficiary's work or that it has somehow impacted the field in a significant manner. 
As it pertains to his roles, as mentioned above, the Beneficiary served as a research fellow and lecturer 
at the I I the University of I I for approximately two years and has been 
employed as a mathematical researcher by the Petitioner since 2019. However, the Petitioner did not 
establish whether the Beneficiary's employment resulted in attention or recognition from the field, 
reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive 
documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
While he submitted a 2018 reference letter froml I, who indicated the Beneficiary's 
postdoctoral researcher position within thel the University of and a 
screenshot from the school's website showing that he taught a course, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that the received any national or international acclaim from this position. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided letters describing the Beneficiary's contributions in his mathematical researcher 
position, such as developing and enhancing mathematical machine-learning and statistical algorithms, 
leading the institutional funds, and mentoring new hires. 7 The letters, however, do not discuss whether 
any of the Beneficiary's professional achievements with the Petitioner garnered the Beneficiary any 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the letters do not show 
the Beneficiary's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish how the Beneficiary's roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although the record reflects the Beneficiary's income with the Petitioner, the record does not 
establish that the Beneficiary commands earnings commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary's wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the ve1y 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how the Beneficiary's salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he 
received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or 
placing him in the upper echelon. In addition, the Petitioner did not document the Beneficiary's 
earnings from other employers, including the ______ the University of I I 
showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
7 See letters from __ head of equities research and institutional funds, and chief operating 
officer. 
5 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiaty's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamalv. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (HamalII), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation"); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of 
the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary previously received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard­
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajf'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19539561 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
established the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) , the record did not establish that she possesses sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the very few at the top of her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director did not consider the totality of the record in making his decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been working as an actress, primarily in theater productions but also in film, for 
more than a decade. She earned a Bachelor of Performing Arts from the I I 
Universitvl in 2010, and completed coursework towards a Bachelor of Fine Arts from I I University. The record includes a job offer letter from a company m 
Massachusetts to work as a media and broadcasting head. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her in qualifying media, 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, and the display of her work in artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two additional evidentiary criteria, 
those relating to a leading or critical role and commercial success in the performing arts. 1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that she has met the requisite 
three criteria, but also that the record does not establish that she qualifies as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 The Petitioner does not reassert her claims to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) or (vi) on appeal. We will 
therefore consider the evidence submitted in support of these criteria only as part of the final merits determination. 
2 
The record includes copies of several articles published in Nepali media which discuss or mention the 
Petitioner and her work in varying degrees. For purposes of this criterion, while published material 
need not be primarily or only about a petitioner to qualify, it cannot be solely about their employer or 
another organization with which they are associated. 6 USCJS Policy Manual at F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Here, the Director listed the names of several publications 
which published articles that were included in the record, but did not identify specific articles which 
were about the Petitioner. After review, we conclude that at least two articles are about the Petitioner: 
an interview of her published in Nepali Times in its I 2013 edition, and a review of an 
adaptation of Shakespeare's I I in the I I 2014 edition of the 
Kathmandu Post. In addition, the record includes evidence which establishes that both of these 
publications are major media in Nepal. We therefore agree that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To support her claim to meeting this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters from the organizers of 
two theater festivals: the Theater Festival and thel I Theater Festival. This evidence 
is further supported by two articles posted on a website which indicate that she served as the head of 
the jury for the Theater Festival in 2012 and for the I I Theater Festival in 2010. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence shows that she also served as a judge at the 
Theater Festival. However, the two letters from I I do not 
identify him as an organizer of this event, or as someone associated with an organization which 
organizes it, nor do they provide specific dates or even the year or edition of the event at which the 
Petitioner is claimed to have participated as a judge. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion based upon the evidence of her work at the 2012 I I Theater 
Festival and the 20101 I Theater Festival. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her performance in numerous theater productions and movies as 
an actor, as well as in other roles including translator, director, and producer. However, we note that 
not every display of work by an artist takes place at an artistic exhibition or showcase, and it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish that a particular venue or event at which their work was displayed was 
an artistic exhibition or showcase. Id. Although the Petitioner has submitted evidence that she has 
performed as an actor in many theater productions and films, the evidence does not establish that the 
plays and films were shown at artistic exhibitions as opposed to shows presented for commercial 
purposes. 
Turning to her work as a movie director, the evidence shows that films she directed or produced were 
shown at film festivals including the 2020 Film Festival and the 201 I I I Film Festival. Because this evidence shows that those film festivals were artistic rather than 
commercial exhibitions of her work, we conclude that based upon this evidence the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
3 
As noted above, on appeal the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two additional criteria. However, 
because we have determined that she has met the requisite three criteria in order to meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification, we will not consider her claims to those criteria. Rather, 
we will review her arguments and the evidence submitted in their support as part of the totality of the 
evidence when conducting a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's final merits determination focused on the evidence 
submitted for each criteria instead of considering the totality of the evidence to determine whether she 
had the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the 
top of her field. In addition, she asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to the 
many reference letters submitted on her behalf, and highlights phrases in some of the published 
material in the record. 
The record shows that after obtaining her performing arts degree in 2010, the Petitioner began an 
active period in Nepali theater and film before coming to the United States in 2015 to continue her 
education. Articles in Nepali publications and reference letters from colleagues and others in the 
Nepali theater and film sector confirm that she performed, and in many cases played a leading 
character, in several theater and film roductions during this period. For example, the article published 
in the Nepali Times in its 2013 edition is about the Petitioner and her portrayal of one of 
the characters in the play an adaptation of I The 
article notes that the production was created by ______ a group co-founded by the 
Petitioner, and describes it as "her show." Another article about the play, published in the Kathmandu 
Post a day earlier, mentions the Petitioner but focuses on the director, another co-founder of I And a letter from the program director of !Theater Nepal states that the 
play was staged at that venue for 30 days in 2013 and attracted full-house audiences. 
Another example of a performance by the Petitioner which received positive mention in major media 
was her role in I I covered in a review in the Nepali Times on I I 
2012. This play was also reviewed in the Kathmandu Post on the previous day, with the article noting 
that the Petitioner is one of the "well-known faces" in the performance. 
However, the evidence does not establish that her acting roles in other theater productions brought the 
Petitioner the same level of recognition as her role in these plays. The Petitioner asserts that her role 
in the Nepali adaptation ofl I was commercially successful, relying upon an article 
posted as a blog. While that article includes sections of reviews of the play that are claimed to have 
been published in major Nepali media, some of which mention the Petitioner, the full reviews are not 
4 
included in the record as published by those media, nor is there further information regarding the 
website where the blog was posted. Another article posted on a website, bishowkhabar.com, also 
mentions the Petitioner and her claimed high salary for her work as an actor inl I but 
as with the blog article, information about this website does not appear in the record to show that this 
is either a reliable or influential source of information. We also note that despite the claims of the 
Petitioner's commercial success (and high salary) which is largely based upon these articles, 
information about ticket sales for this show is not included in the record, nor is evidence of the 
Petitioner's income or how it relates to that of other actors in Nepal. In addition, a letter from one of 
the Petitioner's co-stars in this play I states only that "it is an established fact that all 
the artists involved in that play were paid the highest amount till date for a single production," but 
does not provide salary figures (his own or the Petitioner's) or refer to any documentation to support 
this claim. 
Regarding her acting roles in films, the Petitioner submitted articles posted to several websites that 
mention her as an actress in II I andl 12. The record also includes 
screen shots of movies on Y ouTube, and photographs of the Petitioner taken during the filming of 
these movies. However, although a reference letter froml I founder of a website focused 
on Nepali theater, states that the Petitioner "has had a very strong presence in Nepali film," the record 
does not support this statement. The articles mentioned above primarily list her amongst others as an 
actress in the film discussed, and the evidence does not show that she has received critical acclaim or 
commercial success at the national or international level for these roles. 
In addition to material published in Nepali media, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of an award 
she received to support her acclaim as an actress, for at the 2010 at the annuall I 
One Act Play Drama/Dance/Music and Instrumental Competition. In response to the Director's 
RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml la journalist and co-founder of an 
Indian news website, in which he describes the history and competition rules for this competition. 
However,! I does not indicate that he is a member of the organization which sponsors the 
competition, the I IArtist Association, or otherwise explain the basis of his knowledge. More 
importantly, the evidence does not establish that this award is recognized as being prestigious in the 
field of acting at the national or international level, or otherwise brought acclaim to the Petitioner as 
an actress. We note that the most in-depth article about the Petitioner and her work, published in the 
Nepali Times onl 2013, does not mention her receipt of this award, nor does the record 
include evidence that the award is well publicized in major or arts media. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her participation as a judge of other actors. Specifically, 
she submitted a letter from the organizer of the Theater Festival which states that she was a 
jury member for the festival, as well as an article from a website stating that she was the head of the 
jury for the first edition of this event in 2012. The evidence indicates that the festival was open to 
The Petitioner also participated as a jury member for the I I Theater 
Festival in 2010, which consisted of plays I I and was held in 
I I As with the evidence of the award received by the Petitioner, we note that the evidence 
does not show that either of these festivals received major media coverage, and it is therefore not 
apparent that the Petitioner garnered acclaim through her participation as a jury member. In addition, 
2 The record includes multiple alternate spellings of the title of this film. 
5 
she judged the performance of students and children, not professional actors, which reflects upon her 
perceived status in the acting field and the level of acclaim she has received for her work. 
In addition to the evidence of her work as an actor, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of havin 
performed other roles in theater productions and films. She directed the 
School's Theater Club in three plays: I and in 2014 andI in 2015. Also, the evidence indicates that she translated and adapted productions for the 
Ne ali sta e, includin and Although her work onD 
_________ and ____ (in which she also acted, as noted above) received 
mention in major Nepali media, the evidence does not establish that her work directing secondary 
students led to acclaim or placed her as one of the small percentage of theater directors at the top of 
the field. 
The record also shows that the Petitioner served as a director in films. Specifically, she served as a 
castin director in the film I I a director of the short filml I 
and was a producer for the short film I I The latter two films were screened at the 
Film Festival in 2020 and the Film Festival in 2016, 
respectively. However, the record indicates that th festival was intended to highlight the 
work of local filmmakers, and the record does not demonstrate that either the I festival 
or another festival in I wherel lwas also screened received widespread media attention 
or were otherwise recognized in the film industry as prestigious or important festivals where the work 
of top filmmakers is displayed. Further, we note that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that either 
film was singled out for recognition among others displayed at those festivals. 
Another aspect of the Petitioner's work in Nepali theater is shown by her participation in related 
organizations. As previously noted, the evidence shows that she was a co-founder of I I a group which went on to stage theater productions in which she also performed and played 
other roles. While her role was no doubt leading or critical tol I the evidence does 
not demonstrate that her activities in this role laced her among the small percentage of actors at the 
top of her field. Her co-founder, _ explains that the group worked together from 2014 to 
20 l 7 and mentions the production of I and ________ He also states that 
the group "started the culture of freelancing artists in Nepal," but the record does not include evidence 
to support this statement. 
The Petitioner also points to evidence of her membership inl I Theater on appeal, as shown by a 
letter froml I president of the organization. I lists some of the theater 
productions that the Petitioner was involved in, but does not indicate which of these were done as a 
part of I Theater. In addition, evidence of some of the productions mentioned in his letter does 
not appear elsewhere in the record. He also states that the Petitioner "led our theater group to the 
international theater festivals," but again there is no documentary evidence of the mentioned festivals, 
nor is the letter specific about how she led the group or whether she or the group received acclaim for 
performing at these festivals. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner's work as an actress in some Nepali theater productions 
received positive reviews and attention at the national level, and that her work in adapting and directing 
plays, primarily at the student level, was well appreciated. However, this media attention occurred 
6 
over a brief period of time, and the record does not show that her work was formally recognized by 
performing arts organizations or establish that it led to commercial success or notable financial gain 
for the Petitioner. Further, while her work in other roles in Nepali theater was mentioned in critical 
reviews of the work, the evidence does not establish that this work placed her as one of the few 
directors or translators/adaptors at the very top of the field. When the record is viewed in its entirety, 
it does not show that the Petitioner enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level for 
her work as an actor in theater and film, or for her work in other roles in theater production and 
direction. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19497914 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business operation s specialist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(IXA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences , arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth arrmlti-partanalysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and the high 
salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for a third 
criterion relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). After reviewing all of the 
presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed that his "name and achievements have been featured in eighteen 
(18) articles of various newspapers in Korea, including "Maeil Business Newspaper (MK News)", 
"The Bell", "Aju Economy", "Asia Today", and "Korea Economy Daily (Hankyung)." The 
Petitioner submitted articles and translations and a screenshot from I University 
highlighting that Maeil Business Newspaper is a "Korean -language newspaper on Korean business 
and economy." 
In the request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated: 
The petitioner submitted 18 articles which either mentions his name or is about him 
and his work in the field. However, none of the articles contain an author; and not all 
of the articles are specifically about the petitioner and his work in the field. As noted 
in the regulation, the plain language of this criterion requires published material to 
contain a title, date, and an author; to be about the petitioner and his work in the field; 
and to be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
USCIS does not consider articles which mentions the petitioner's name in passing to 
2 
be about him and his work in the field. Furthermore, please note that for each foreign 
language article, the petitioner must submit an English language translation that is full 
and complete. Summary translations are not acceptable. Finally, with respect to 
whether a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication, or other 
major media, a petitioner should identify the [publication's] circulation ( online or in 
print) and intended audience of the publication.[] This information must come from a 
reliable source and must reflect circulation statistics during the time period in which 
the published material was published. 
In response, the Petitioner provided revised translations for nine previously submitted articles and 
offered translations for five new articles. In addition, the Petitioner presented translations for 
circulation statistics from the Korean Audit Bureau of Certification for various publications, such as 
MK Economy, MK News, Asia Today, Economic Review, Korea Economic Daily, and Hankyung 
Business. Further, the Petitioner claimed that certain exhibits indicated the title, date, and author and 
"many other pages of the attached newspaper articles stated the title, date and an author of each article 
in similar forms." Moreover, the Petitioner asse1ied information from the World Policy Conference 
and Bloomberg, L.P. regardingMaei/ Business Newspaper (MK News) and Korea Economic Daily.1 
The Director repeated his statements in the RFE and determined that"neitherthe a1iiclesnorcounsel's 
list/RFE [] contains an author" and concluded thatthe Petitioner did not meet the criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner submits the same RFE documents and makes matching RFE arguments and asserts that 
he "provided the documentary evidence and information ... all of them with certified English language 
translations" showing the "[t]itle, date and name of the author of the newspaper a1iicles," "[ss ]entences 
in each article indicating that the article is specifically about [him]," and "[infonnation and documents 
regarding the prestige of the newspapers which featured [him] as major national media and their 
circulation numbers, from credible sources." 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 2 Further, any document 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3 ). The translator must ce1iify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
The record reflects that at initial filing the Petitioner submitted "Certificate of Accuracy" translations 
for each of the foreign language articles claiming "that all following translations of the entire parts or 
marked parts of the following documents are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge." 
However, the translations only relate to "entire parts or marked parts" rather than "full English 
language translation[s]" as required under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Moreover, the translations appear 
to have added information that are not in the original documents; and therefore, they are not accurate 
descriptions and diminish their probative value. For instance, the translations include the media type 
and circulation data that are not reflected in the actual articles. Inconsistencies in the record must be 
1 Although he provided footnotes of website addresses to support his claims, the Petitioner did not submit documentaty 
evidence. 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
3 
resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because of these inconsistencies, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the translated material is accurate and supports his claims of published material about him relating 
to his work in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not include the authors for four of the articles and did not include the 
authors and dates for two of the articles. 3 Further, while the translations claimed circulation numbers 
for the printed publications, the record reflects that all but three articles were posted on websites. Thus, 
the Petitioner must demonstrate that the websites represent major media rather than the printed 
publications. See, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). Moreover, although two of the articles were published in Asia Today, the 
Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to support the circulation claims in the translations 
and show how such data establishes professional or major trade or major media status. 4 The other 
article published in FN Times did not have any circulation statistic assertions, nor did the Petitioner 
offer any evidence of the publication's standing. 
Relating to the evidence presented in the RFE response, as indicated above, the Petitioner provided 
revised translations for nine previously submitted articles, translations for five new articles, and 
translations for circulation data for various publications. 5 Despite being informed in the Director's 
RFE regarding the submission of certified translations attesting to their accuracy and the translator's 
competency, the Petitioner offered translations without any certifications.6 Because the translations 
do not comply with 8 C.F.R. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3), the Petitioner did not establish that the translated 
material is accurate and supports his claims of eligibility for this criterion. 7 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents the same documentation that he submitted in response to the 
Director's RFE, including uncertified translations for all of the documentation. Without properly 
certified and full English language translations, the Petitioner has not shown that the material is about 
3 Although the Director determined that the Petition er did not include authors for any of the articles, most of the translations 
list the reporter's name. The translations that did not include authors were posted on mk.co.krl l 20 1 7 J I 
2016, 12015, and 2015), and the articles that did not include the authors and dates were posted on 
a ward.koc.or.kr and sanghun.go.kr. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professionalormajortradepublications orin othermajormedia publications should establish that thecirculation(on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 The Petitioner did not provide revised translations for the six articles that did not include authors and/or dates. 
6 The Director's RFE stated: 
If you submit a document in any language other than English, the documentmust be accompanied by a 
full and complete English translation. The translatormust certifythatthe translation is accurate and he 
or she is competent to translate from that language to English. If you submit a foreign language 
translation in response to this request for evidence, you must also include a copy of the foreign language 
document. 
7 We note that regarding the previously submitted translated documents, the Petitioner attached a piece of paper stating 
that "[e]ach set of English documents in this Exhibit is a translation of its immediately following documents in Korean." 
However, the document does not identify the translator, certify thatthe translations are complete and accurate, and indicate 
that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English consistent with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3). 
4 
him, occurred in professional or major trade publications or other major media, and includes the title, 
date, and author. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 202 l)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one ofthemostfamous baseball players inKoreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59(Sept. 19, 1990);seealso section203(b)(l)(A)oftheAct. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Director determined that the 
Petitioner has served in a leading or critical role and received a high salary, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19936837 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer and journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as a "Radio, Television, and Short Film producer, focusing primarily on 
journalism production." The Petitioner states that she has acted as a producer in Venezuela and, since 
2013, in the United States, in thel I area. Her work in the United States, discussed in more detail 
below, includes radio, television, and print work. A submitted article in the online news site La Nota 
Latina describes the Petitioner's "biggest project,! " as a "project ... to offer businesses, 
entrepreneurs, professionals and brands the possibility to promote themselves in a massive outlet." The 
record does not provide a more precise description of what I is, what it does, its format, or 
direct evidence of its activities. The Petitioner's "Letter of Intent to Continue Working as a Producer" 
does not mention! I 
The Petitioner holds 0-lB nonimmigrant status as an individual with extraordinary ability in the radio or 
television industry.1 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records show thatl I I filed the nonimmigrant petition in 2014 to classify her as an 0-lB nonimmigrant.2 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she received two major, internationally recognized awards, 
specifically I I Awards I I. (She received the awards in 
2014, after her arrival in the United States, but the awarding entity is in Venezuela. Materials 
relating to the award do not identify the specific projects for which she received the awards.) The 
Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that these awards are major, internationally 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 status relates to extraordinary ability. Though the prior approval of an 0-1 petition may be a 
relevant consideration in adjudicating an immigrant petition for a person with extraordinary ability, it is not determinative. 
Eligibility as an 0-1 nonimmigrant does not automatically establish eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability 
classification. Moreover, the 0-1 nonimmigrant classification has different definitions and standards for persons in the 
arts and the motion picture and television industry when compared to the definition and standard set forth for the immigrant 
with extraordinary ability. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Her 0-1 B non immigrant status did not authorize the Petitioner to work for any employer other than I I between 
2014 and 2017 (at which time she obtained broader employment authorization . See 8 C.F.R. § 274a.12(b )(13). In 2017, 
on Form G-325A, Biographic Information, the Petitioner identified __ as her only employer in the United States. 
Nevertheless, the present petition's record of proceeding does not contain any documentation froml or 
statements from its officials to establish how her work in the United States relates tol I 
2 
recognized awards, and the Petitioner does not pursue this claim on appeal. Because the Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this issue, we consider it to be abandoned. 3 We 
will discuss the awards further in the context oflesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging and display.4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other four claimed criteria. Upon review of 
the record, and as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
those four remaining criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to satisfy this criterion through four awards: 
• 
• Award, Best Producer of the Year (2014); 
Award, Best Broadcaster of the Year (2014); 
• !Festival, Best Film Photography! I (2014); and 
• I Award, Best International Producer (2017). _________ 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established that any of the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized. On appeal, the Petitioner alleges no error regarding the award from the I I Festival. We address the other awards below. 
The Petitioner's evidence regarding the ________ Award consists of a letter from the 
president of the awarding entity, stating that the Petitioner won "[t]his unique award which recognizes 
the [Petitioner's] effort, popularity and excellence." The Petitioner asserts that this letter is, itself, the 
"award certificate"; there is no other evidence of the award in the record, nor any indication that such 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
4 Because this proceeding has not reached a final merits determination, we need not discuss whether or not the Petitioner's 
activities relating to judging and artistic display rise to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. Such 
discussion would not change the outcome of the appeal. 
3 
other evidence exists. At the time of the Director's decision, the record contained no evidence of the 
award's significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two short online articles ( each four to six sentences in length), published 
in 201 7, regarding the awards. The Petitioner does not explain why she did not submit these materials 
after the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), specifically requesting evidence of the awards' 
significance. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Furthermore, the two brief articles would have been material to the outcome of the appeal. 
The articles name some recipients of the award (not the Petitioner), but do not indicate that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner documents her receipt oftwol I Awards in 2014, as described above, but 
initially she did not submit any independent, objective evidence to establish the national or international 
recognition of those awards. Instead, she submits letters from the president and other officials of the 
awarding entity and printouts from that entity's own website. These individuals attest that "[t]he is 
the most important award given internationally by Venezuela," but such statements alone do not constitute 
sufficient independent, objective evidence of the national or international significance of the award or 
pnze. 
In the RFE, the Director requested documentary evidence of the award's significance and recognition, 
and "[p]ublic announcement ... issued by the granting organization." In response, the Petitioner 
submitted further statements from officials of the awarding organization. However, the evidence in the 
record, consisting of statements from such officials and no other supporting evidence, is insufficient 
to establish the organization's distinguished reputation by a preponderance of the evidence. 
In terms of publicity and coverage, the Petitioner submitted printouts of two online articles, neither of 
which identifies its author. A 2016 article from La Nata Latina states: "With 61 years of history, the 
prestigious de Venezuela' debuts in the city of I with the 
Awards,' with the purpose of recognizing the work of Latino talent who live in the 
This wording implies that the pool of potential recipients is local rather than national or international. 
A 2017 article from El Universal announces that I will recognize national talent" at an 
awards gala inl !Venezuela, celebrating "50 years of the I The El Universal 
article also indicates that "[t]he I is the only Venezuelan award that belongs to the I an organization also said to include the Latin Gramm Golden Globe, 
and other well-known awards. But the record contains no evidence from the ort this 
claim, establish the significance of that membership, or even confirm the existence of the itself. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not sufficiently established the national or international 
recognition of the Award. The Director noted that it was not even clear that all the evidence relates 
to the same award, because some record materials refer to the and others to the I I I I Also, with regard to the length of time the award has existed, the 
reference to "61 years" in the 2016 article is not consistent with the reference to "50 years" in the 201 7 
article. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "[t]he I Award was founded or 11958" 
in Venezuela, but does not explain why an article from 2017 referred to the award's 50th anniversary. 
The Petitioner submits further news articles, dated between 2016 and 2018, to support the contention that 
"the _____ Awards ... [have] in fact received significant media attention at a national or 
international level." Even if we were to set aside concerns as to wh the Petitioner did not submit this 
evidence in response to the RFE, these articles all refer to the whereas the Petitioner's own 
award documentation refers consistently to the Although the Director had 
already raised this issue, the Petitioner, on appeal, does not address the issue or establish that these 
different terms refer to the same award. 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not established that her awards meet the regulatory requirements. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she meets this criterion through her membership in three 
organizations in Venezuela: the Association of Venezuelan Journalists Overseas (APEVEX); the 
National Board of Journalists of Venezuela; and the Radio, Theater, Movies, TV and Related Workers 
Union of the State of Miranda. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the 
organizations require outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses her membership in only one association, APEVEX; she does not allege 
error in the Director's conclusions regarding the other claimed memberships. 
In a printout in the record, APEVEX' s own website describes the organization as a "trade union" that 
"represent[ s] the interests of our members and stimulate[ s] their professional growth in the United States." 
A letter from the president of APEVEX lists three "Membership Requirements": a college diploma, a 
resume, and evidence of at least three years of employment with a news organization. APEVEX' s articles 
of organization do not indicate that the organization exists to recognize the most accomplished individuals 
in the field, or that outstanding achievements are required for membership; rather, they state that 
"APEVEX will group together all Venezuelan journalists living in the United States and other countries 
who share the same goals and are willing to work to achieve them." 
Memberships in organizations that admit members based on education or experience, and trade unions 
that admit members based on occupation, are not qualifying memberships to meet the regulation. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "experts in the field are 
responsible for choosing prospective members based on their qualifications and achievements in the 
field." Because the membership requirements are minimal (based on factors such as occupation, 
experience, and education) rather than necessarily outstanding achievements, information about who 
selects new members cannot show that APEVEX membership meets the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not shown that APEVEX requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix. In determining whether an 
organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor. Rather, the organization or 
establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. Id. Merriam-Webster's online 
dictionary defines distinguished as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person."5 
The Petitioner initially asserted that she satisfies this criterion through her work for two employers in the 
I !Florida area. ecifically, she asserts that she "was responsible for the entire production of [a] 
talk show" for and she "is responsible for the production of all journalism content for" 
She later claimed a qualifying role for a thirdl I entity, 
The founder and president of __________ based in describes the company as 
"an Advertising Agency, dedicated to the elaboration of an International Magazine," also called 
I I The magazine published a one-page interview with the Petitioner in itsl I 
2016 issue. The Petitioner specifically cites this article as evidence of her leading or critical role with the 
magazine's publisher, but the article does not describe her role except to refer to her as a "Journalist." 
The first letter from the company president contained few details about the nature of the Petitioner's work 
for the company. In response to the RFE, he stated: 
[The Petitioner] has worked with me in multiple projects for the magazine as journalist 
and producer, writing, selling, covering and organizing events, managing social media, 
interviewing, among many other activities. . . . Among [her] key responsibilities ... are: 
talent scouting for interviews, interview conducting, writing and preparation; looking for 
possible clients and sponsors; organizing and executing all the events at the magazine, 
specially monthly cover parties to honor different personalities; covering city events and 
producing articles and photos; managing content for social media, producing posts and 
videos. 
The listed responsibilities appear to have only a small amount of overlap with the Petitioner's self­
described occupation as a "Radio, Television, and Short Film producer." We need not discuss the nature 
of the Petitioner's role in great detail, however, because the Petitioner has not established thatl I I I has a distinguished reputation. 
Prior to the appeal, a section of the record labeled"[ e ]vidence of distinguished 
reputation" consisted solely of a printout from the digital publishing platform! I showing the covers 
of several issues of the magazine. The printout documents the magazine's existence, but not the 
reputation of the organization that publishes it. The Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to indicate 
5 See https://www .merriam-webster.com/ dictionary/ distinguished. 
6 
that only accepts material from organizations with a distinguished reputation, or otherwise 
explained why the Issuu printout is evidence of a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, "[w ]e respectfully submit . . . independent, objective evidence to 
document the eminence, distinction, and excellence ofl But the Petitioner does 
not say what this evidence is, or cite to any exhibit in the record. The founder's own claims about the 
company he established are, by definition, not "independent, objective evidence" of that company's 
distinguished reputation. The appellate brief includes the claim that I has been a mainstay in 
the advertising market since 1998," but the unsupported assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. 
Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 534 n.2 ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 
(BIA 1980)). 
The vice president and general manager of I in I Florida, states that the 
Beneficiary produced I I and I (The record does not 
specify whether these were television or radio programs.) The official does not explain how the 
Petitioner's work on two programs was leading or critical for the studio at the organizational level, and 
the Petitioner submits no other information or evidence regarding the shows. 
The Petitioner submitted no independent evidence of the reputation of I in I I The 
Petitioner submits evidence about the larger I described as "a global 
enterprise" with television channels throughout Latin America. The Petitioner has not established 
whether the shows she produced aired throughout the I different territories, or only in 
the area wherel lis located. The record contains no statement from any 
official of the international organization, and no other evidence that the Petitioner performed in a leading 
and critical role for the entire organization. 
The general manager of in states that the Petitioner "worked for this company 
from January 16th 2015 to May 21st 2015 as the Producer of the entertainment show titled 
The network's founder and director states that the Petitioner's responsibilities ranged from "[ o ]rganizing 
weekly meetings with her team" and "[b]]eing TV host" to "[h]]andl[ing] the teleprompter" and "cover[ing] 
for camera operators." Whatever the importance of these activities to a particular program, the Petitioner 
has not established that I I is an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
A web printout describes as comprising "more than 30 FM Radio Stations, with 
presence in South America, the Caribbean, Europe and now North America." The network is based in 
Venezuela, but the letter quoted above does not specify whetherl I was broadcast throughout 
the network or only its affiliate, nor does it establish that the Petitioner's role was leading or critical 
for the entire network. Because the background information relates to the entire network, it does not show 
that the !station where the Petitioner worked has a distinguished reputation in its own right. 
Apart from the organizations that the Petitioner specifically identifies, she also cites more general letters 
of support and recommendation from individuals who have worked with her in various capacities. The 
Petitioner does not say how these letters establish her leading or critical role with any specific organization 
or establishment with a distinguished reputation. Instead, the letters offer general praise for the 
Petitioner's talent and accomplishments. 
7 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner states: "Because of her longstanding career as a producer, she has been recognized 
extensively in major nationally circulated newspapers and magazines." Despite the claim of "extensive" 
coverage, the Petitioner submits copies of only two articles, both from 2016. One article appeared in an 
online publication called La Nata Latina, the other in I I 
As noted above, is either an employer or client of the Petitioner (the exact 
nature of the relationship is unclear from the record). The interview in that company's magazine consists 
largely of biographical material and very general information about the Petitioner's past and ongoing 
work. The Petitioner does not provide circulation information forl I indicating 
that such information is unnecessary because it is a "trade journal," but the regulation specifically refers 
to "major trade publications." Although the word I is in the magazine's title, magazine 
covers reproduced in the record show the names of several cities, all in Southeast Florida, consistent with 
a regional rather than international publication. The record does not establish the existence of editions in 
other localities. In this respect, it is relevant that the magazine's editor claims that the "magazine ... [is] 
one of the favorites in South Florida." 
The article from La Nata Latina does not identify an author as the regulation requires. Furthermore, the 
regulation requires the published material to be about the Petitioner's "work in the field in which 
classification is sought." The Petitioner seeks, in her words, "classification as an Alien of Extraordinary 
Ability in the Arts as a Producer" ( emphasis in original), but the article refers to her as a "journalist," 
and the discussion of her work is limited to mention of I in terms so general that the nature 
of the project is difficult to discern. 
On appeal, the Petitioner devotes considerable attention to the reliability of SimilarWeb as a source of 
online readership data. But the SimilarWeb printout in the record does not support the Petitioner's claim 
that La Nata Latina is a major publication. It has a "Global Rank" of 639,905; a "Country Rank" of 
53,291 in Mexico (the country for which such data was provided); and a "Category Rank" of29,373. The 
Petitioner does not explain how these statistics support her claims. The Petitioner notes that the site 
received 79,700 visits in May 2017, but the Petitioner does not establish that this raw number is consistent 
with major media, particularly in light of what appear to be very low rankings, shown above. The printout 
the Petitioner submitted also indicates that most visitors to the site looked at only one page and left the 
site within 30 seconds. 
The Petitioner has not established that she has been the subject of coverage in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record minimally documents her work in Venezuela, and her work in 
the United States appears to have been limited to local Spanish-language media in the Miami area. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19496791 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an orthopaedic scholar, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to dete1mine whether the factto be proven is probably 
true." MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vi). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extra ordinary ability under section 2 03(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner provided a statement indicating: 
For the past six years I have been actively involved in the study of Orthopaedic Surgery 
with a focus in sp01is medicine which includes the treatment ofl I disorders. 
Although medical school has a broadly focus curriculum I is an extremely 
competitive institution at which I was fortunate enough to be accepted. Since I 
matriculated, I have honed my studies in the field of sports medicine .... 
Furthermore my background, educational career, and research endeavors afforded me 
admission t School of Business at al I business school in the 
U.S., where I have been studying to earn my Master of Business Administration 
(MBA). This has further developed my leadership skills, knowledge of healthcare 
economics as well as the ability to improve the business and operational side of 
medicine especially as it relates to Orthopaedic Sports Medicine. I have been able to 
further the science as well as business of __ care in the U.S. with an eye towards 
both cost containment and meaningful patient care .... 
At the time of the initial filing of the petition, as indicated above, the Petitioner currently pursues an 
MBA degree atl land previously attended! for a bachelor of 
science degree. Moreover, the record reflects that the Petitioner presently serves as a preceptor for 
first year medical students at the School of Medicine atl land conducted an 
orthopaedic surgery clerkship a articipated as a research coordinator for sp01is medicine 
atl I General Hospital as part of his medical school training. Although the 
Director determined that the Petitioner has received awards, garnered published material about him, 
judged others, and authored scholarly articles, the record does not demonstrate that he enjoys a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
In 2016 and 20 I 7, the Petitioner received scholarships from the Government 
of the Republic of 1 I The record contains a letter from president of the fund, 
stating that "[t]he aim of the Fund I I is to recognize talented, successful and diligent 
young people and provide them with the necessary assistance in achieving the above-average results 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a longperiodoftime, 
and to persist in makinganeffort over a longperiodoftime). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to d etermine e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
in order to be the basis for the future social-economic development of the Republic ofl I In 
addition, the Government of the Republic of I awarded the Petitioner "The National Merit 
Order" for "the best young researcher of II cycles of studies" in 2018. 4 Here, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his scholarship and academic awards reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Rather, the awards indicate 
recognition for financial assistance and academic pursuits and do not show that that his "achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise." See section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the majorleague level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of"extraordinary ability." 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). He has not established, for instance, 
that he competed against other accomplished orthopaedic scholars or how his scholarship and 
academic awards compare to other renowned orthopaedic scholars, showing that he "is one of that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" rather than receiving 
academic awards to pursue an education. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Further, regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered four items reflecting published material 
about him from 2014 -201 7. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such press coverage, 
without any since 2017, is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for 
this highly restrictive classification. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did 
not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being among that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflect 
a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).5 Here, the Petitioner's minimal 
media exposure does not meet this very high standard. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 6 In his capacity 
as a preceptor for first year medical students at he "[p]]rovides end of year evaluation of students 
relative to their achievement of the goals and objectives of thel lcourse."7 Here, the 
Petitioner's recent judging experience involves evaluating the work of first year medical students 
rather than nationally or internationally renowned medical professionals. 
4 The Petitioner previously contended that he also made two presentations during the 2016 Annual Meeting of the I I Association ofNorth America; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received any prizes or 
a wards from these presentations, let alone nationally orintema tionally recognized prizes or a wards for excellence in the 
field. 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 2. 
6 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoyin g sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 See letter from
4 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that these evaluations contribute to a finding that he has a 
career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. He did not show, for 
example, how his limited experience in evaluating aspiring medical professionals compares to others 
at the very top of the field. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his evaluation work. Moreover, serving as a judge or evaluator does 
not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Cf., Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (stating that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the ''extraordinary ability" 
standard). Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has 
a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automaticallyplace one at the top of the field. 8 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored 14 journal articles. However, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of 14 articles in a five-year timefrarne is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or international acclaim, and 
being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the 
significance of his authorships or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the 
very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history orotherevidenceofthe influence ofhis written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other orthopaedic 
scholars have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 5 96 F. 3 d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting 
that his co-authored material has been cited 223 times, with his two highest cited articles receiving 
102 citations. 9 While the citation of his work shows that some in his field have referenced it, the 
Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the 
field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the 
8 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra,at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative ofbeing one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
were in The lo ppcal, the 
Petitioner provides updated Research Gate and Google Scholar information. However, we will not consider this evidence 
for the first time onappealas it was not presented before the Director. SccMattcrofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 764, 766(BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that 
"we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 5 3 3 (BIA 1988). Moreover, the updated information relates to events occurring a ft er the filing of the petition. 
The petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the benefit have been satisfied from the timeoffiling and 
continuing through adjudication. Sec 8 C.F.R. § l 03.2(b )(1). 
5 
Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his work represent attention at a 
level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field.10 See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not show that his presented material garnered him any national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Although he offered evidence showing 
that he presented two papers, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of his presentations 
or how they impacted the field consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to submit 
more extensive documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the four criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional 
documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we find 
that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
In support of the significance of his contributions and roles, the Petitioner submitted a few 
recommendation letters that summarized his work as a student, as well as his accomplishments with I I andl I 11 For exampleJ I discussed the Petitioner's study in 
treating! I instability, and I indicated the Petitioner's implementation of 3D 
printing and its integration with I software. Although they praise the Petitioner's work, they 
do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, among the upper echelon or that he has garnered recognition on a 
national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that he has made impactful or influential 
contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep.No. at 5 9 and section 20 3 (b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish how his roles withl I or resulted in 
widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that 
overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
10 The record contains citation statistics of selective orthopaedic surgeons from Research Gate. However, the majority of 
the sample has higher citations than the Petitioner, with one individual ga mering a !most 1,400 citations. 
11 On appeal, the Petitioner submits residency interview invitations; however, the documentation relates to events occurring 
after the initial filing and was not presented before the Director. Sec 8 C.F.R. 103.2(b)(l) and Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 
766; sec also Obaigbcna, 19 I&NDec. at533. 
6 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players inKoreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficientto demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19518381 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist and designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to dete1mine whether the factto be proven is probably 
true." MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), artistic display at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the 
Director concluded thatthe Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that 
he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review 
the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.l,EvaluationofEvidence Submitted with CertainForml-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordina1y ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
2 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner provided a statement indicating: 
Currently, I am the co-owner orl l an architecture company based in I jvenezuela, and one of the most important one in the country, with over 240 
architectonic projects in our portfolio -some already built, some in construction, some 
in the feasibility studies stage and some just ideas in drawing paper pending on client 
decisions. 
We have built winning award houses, buildings, malls, several considered real 
landmarks in Venezuela. Also, we have developed architectonic projects in South and 
Central America, the United States and Europe. 
But I am a visual artist, as well. During my career, I have demonstrated that my art and 
my skills as an architect merged. 
As an artist, I have showcased my artwork in individual and collective exhibitions, 
during the last 45 years, in different countries and the 
most renowned galleries in cities 
such as Barcelona, Madrid, Caracas, Bogota, Miami, San Francisco, among others. 
Furthermore, I have won awards and distinctions as a visual artist. 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has received published material about him, 
displayed in work, and performed in a leading or critical role, the record does not demonstrate that he 
enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to published material, the Petitioner offered about a dozen articles for the period of 2005 
-2018. About half of the articles show published material about him relating to his work, while the 
other articles either mentions his name one time or reflect coverage of his various art exhibits where 
he is credited as the artist. While he claimed to have showcased his artwork for the past 45 years, the 
Petitioner did not present any media coverage of him prior to 2005. Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the 
Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a longperiodoftime, 
and to persist in makinganeffort over a longperiodoftime). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to d etermine e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his 
activities reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203 (b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).4 Here, the 
Petitioner's minimal media exposure does notmeetthis very high standard. The articles, for instance, 
do not reference the Petitioner as an acclaimed, nationally or internationally recognized artist, 
acknowledging him among the upper echelon in the field. 
Regarding the artistic display of his work, the Petitioner provided evidence of his 20 collective 
exhibitions and his 12 individual exhibitions. The majority of his exhibitions occurred at art galleries 
inl IV enezuela with also a few inl I Florida andl I California from 
2001 -2019. Although the Petitioner established that he exhibited his work at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases, simply displaying one's work, however, does not automatically place one at the very top 
of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual 
of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of his collective or individual exhibitions, such as that 
his work brought wide praise from critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible 
for the success of standings of the events. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Again, the nominal press 
coverage over the last 20 years, without any evidence of his artwork displayed prior to 2001, does not 
show his sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish his work from others in his 
field or show that it reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No.101-723 at 59. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that his work garnered a level of attention or was regularly 
seen at highly reputable venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it pe1iains to his leading or critical role, as mentioned earlier, the Petitioner co-ownsD I I The Petitioner submitted a few articles authored by I describing some 
of its architectural projects. In addition, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that I received awards for various architectural projects. The record also contains evidence of I l's construction projects and furniture brand, I' Although the Petitioner 
claimed to have been working in the field for the past 45 years, he did not document any roles for any 
other organizations or establishments, nor did he demonstrate that he received a level of attention or 
recognition from the field based on his work withl I reflecting a career of acclaimed 
work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at59 and56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does 
not indicate that he received recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his role with resulted in widespread acclaim from 
his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall field considers 
4 Sec also USCISPolicyMemorandumPM 602-0005.1,supra, at 2. 
4 
him to be at the very top, garnering with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider 
additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence 
demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed 
below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner presented three awards received by. Although he 
co-owns the business, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has been individually acknowledged 
by garnering nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field, 
showing a career of acclaimed work in the field. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that his personal achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Furthermore, he has not shown, for 
instance, that he competed against other accomplished visual artists or designers, reflecting that he is 
one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, regarding his contributions in the field, the Petitioner referenced the same media articles, 
discussed above, as well as five other materials reviewing and critiquing both his individual collections 
andl architectural projects. The record also contains evidence of the Petitioner's 
humanitarian work with organizations. Although the evidence reflects the originality of his work and 
that it has received some attention, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has garnered recognition 
on a national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the level of media coverage represents impactful or influential contributions in the overall field 
representing a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not show that his contributions received substantial attention from the field, indicating 
that he is among the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30704. While his charitable work with various organizations is admirable, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how his humanitarian work contributes to a career of acclaimed work in the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 202l)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even 
5 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Koreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner previously received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard­
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999);Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19498633 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economic historian, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Where a petitioner meets these 
initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Between 2000 and 2011, the Petitioner studied economics and related fields at various universities in 
Turkey, culminating in a Ph.D. in Labor Economics froml I University. He remained at 
Universi as an assistant professor from 2012 to 2016, and as an associate professor from 2016 to 2017. 
· · · · · · anslate as I 
2013), which began as his doctoral 
thesis, and (2015). Since 2019, the Petitioner has worked as an "economic history researcresearcher and professor" at thel at the University 
in I Germany. Correspondence in the record indicates that the Petitioner intends to work as 
a visiting scholar at the University I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
2 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied at least one further criterion. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) calls for documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
A translated certificate from th 
indicates that the Petitioner's book "received Honorable Mention award in the 
contextofthe in2015." Therecordshows _____________________ 
that the Petitioner received this award at the same ceremony at which the President of Turkey presented 
three Academy Prizes. The record indicates that the Academy Prize is more significant 
than a award, award, but the record establishes that the award is also nationally recognized, 
presented by Turkey's national government at a ceremony that received some degree of media coverage. 
The existence of a more important award does not disqualify the I award. 
Because the satisfaction of a third evidentiary criterion is sufficient for us to proceed to a final merits 
determination, we need not discuss the Petitioner's other claims regarding membership in associations, 
published material about the Petitioner, and original contributions of major significance in the context of 
the initial evidentiary criteria. Below, however, we will discuss some of this evidence insofar as it relates 
to the larger claim that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
We begin by noting that, while the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of three of the regulatory 
criteria, two of these activities appear to be routine among academic scholars. The Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and his peer 
review of manuscripts by other scholars constitutes judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner relies heavily on the response to his 2013 bookl I We acknowledge that this 
book won an award at a ceremony attended by the President of Turkey, and was the subject of a review 
on a major Turkish news site,I 12 The Petitioner has submitted several letters from individuals 
asserting that the book is an important contribution to scholarship in his field. But the response to this 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 The Director concluded that the I I article does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). in part 
because the article was published without the required author credit. We do not have the discretion to disregard regulatory 
requirements. but we can give the article due consideration in the broader context of the final merits determination. 
3 
one book, published about seven years before the Petitioner filed his petition in 2020, does not rise to 
the sustained acclaim that the statute requires. 
A Google Scholar printout submitted with the petition shows thatl had garnered 34 citations 
between 2013 and 2020. The Petitioner provides no context to show that only highly influential works 
in his field would achieve 34 citations over the course of seven years, and he does not otherwise 
explain how this number of citations places him in the small percentage at the very top of the field as 
the regulations require.I I is, by a wide margin, the Petitioner's most heavily-cited scholarly 
work. According to the Google Scholar printout, each of the Petitioner's other cited works had 
accumulated between 1 and 14 citations at the time of filing. This evidence is insufficient to establish 
his sustained national or international acclaim. 
Furthermore, the Google Scholar printout does not indicate that the Petitioner's output after 
has attracted comparable notice. Out of all the Petitioner's published work after 2015, only one article 
had received one citation. Eight months after the filing date, the Petitioner submitted an updated 
Google Scholar printout, showing some increase in the total number of citations, but the second-most­
cited article remained at 14 citations, and once again there was only one citation for one article from 
201 7. A third printout, submitted on appeal, shows citation figures from 13 months after the filing 
date. Citations of !continue to accumulate, but the second-listed item has gained only one 
further citation. Citation of the Petitioner's post-2015 work continues to be minimal, with two articles 
from 2017 showing one citation each. Taken together, the citation information does not show that the 
field's response to his wider body of work is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim 
as the statute requires. 
Also, the first two Google Scholar printouts do not show any published work after 2017, either cited 
or uncited. (The third printout, submitted on appeal, shows one uncited article from 2019 and another 
from 2020.) The burden is on the Petitioner to show eligibility at the time of filing, and he "must 
continue to be eligible through adjudication." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's submission of evidence showing that he would soon make presentations at academic 
conferences, but he has not shown that participation of this kind is limited to those scholars who have 
achieved national or international acclaim. (We note that the Petitioner pointed to these presentations 
as examples of his original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v), but if the 
work had not yet been presented to the field, then it is premature at best to claim that this then­
unpublished work was of major significance.) 
The Petitioner has submitted a number ofletters which, he states, attest to the significance of his work. 
Most of these letters are from colleagues and former students. Some of the letters indicate that the 
Petitioner brings a new approach to historiography, relying on previously unexamined archival 
materials, providing new insights into the laborl I inl I and offering a 
new perspective on historical research that emphasizes its ongoing relevance to modem events. But 
the record does not establish how these attributes have influenced historiography in Turkey or beyond, 
rather than simply representing traits that the letter writers admire in the Petitioner's writings. 
Two letters are from individuals who have cited the Petitioner's published work. Both of these letters 
are very brief -two paragraphs each -and they offer emphatic but general assertions. One letter 
indicates that the Petitioner "has published the most prominent and detailed studies on the I I 
4 
labor history and made huge contributions to the area of economic history." The other letter goes into 
slightly more detail, indicating thatl I is "a reference point for all scholars involved in the field 
of history worldwide," because the Petitioner "not only dealt with all the 
unlike teams of employees individually, but he also investigated the peculiar socio-economic 
conditions prevailing in land their crucial result on the workers' status." The brevity of the 
letters, and general nature of the assertions, do not offer sufficient support for the Petitioner's claim to 
be an acclaimed researcher at the top of his field. 
Regarding his intended work in the United States, the Petitioner submits a printout of an email 
conversation from July 2019, and asserts that it shows that a I political and 
economic historian" has expressed an "existing interest in working with [the Petitioner] atl I 
In the email exchange, the Petitioner introduced himself and stated: "I aim to continue my research 
in the USA by July 2020. . . . I believe that it would be a great opportunity for me to study with you 
at I as a visiting scholar for one-year (from July 2020 to June 2021)." Thel I professor's 
response reads, in part: "Thank you for your interest in and your interest in working with me. 
I look forward to working with you." The Petitioner has highlighted the latter sentence in yellow ink. 
There is no direct indication that thq I professor was already familiar with the Petitioner's work, 
and no indication that the professor's message was more than a polite acknowledgment of a routine 
inquiry about a potential fellowship. The record does not show that, beyond this expression of intent, 
the Petitioner took any formal steps to apply for a visiting scholar position, or thatl I formally 
accepted him into such a position. Taken in context, this brief communication does not indicate that 
the Petitioner is a recognized figure in his field as he seeks to establish. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19633653 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in biochemistry, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from the National Institute _________ I I in I India, in 2007. While the record does not provide a complete accounting of his 
employment history, it does show that he has spent several years conducting research in the United States 
as a J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor at various universities, most recently! I University in I I Missouri. His research has touched on various areas of medical interest, sometimes using 
animal models to study I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the other three claimed 
criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
related to judging and scholarly articles. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
The Petitioner initially asserted that he satisfies this criterion throu h his recei t of a doctoral degree; 
qualification for a lectureship from India's Council of and a senior 
research fellowship from the Indian Council of ______ The Petitioner did not submit any 
evidence that these achievements constitute prizes or awards, rather than professional credentials. The 
Petitioner does not pursue these claims on appeal. 
Following the Director's issuance of a request for evidence (RFE , the Petitioner has claimed to satisfy 
this criterion through two certificates from the Publications Board indicating that 
he has "been approved as a subject of biographical record in for 2011-2012 
and 2016-2017. The certificates indicate that "inclusion ... is limited to individuals who possess 
professional integrity, demonstrate outstanding achievement in their respective fields and have made 
innumerable contributions to society as a whole." Apart from copies of the certificates themselves, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to establish that his I I inclusion is nationally or 
internationally recognized as a prize or award for excellence in his field. The certificates are not evidence 
of their own national or international recognition. Furthermore, the certificates do not identify the 
"outstanding achievement" or "innumerable contributions" that earned the Petitioner a place in the 
publication. Without objective, independent evidence to provide context, the certificates do not satisfy 
the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout of the Wikipedia entry for I Wikipedia 
articles lack indicia of reliability and warrant very limited probative weight in immigration proceedings. 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516 (BIA 2015); see also Bing Shun Liv. Holder, 400 Fed.Appx. 854, 
857-58 (5th Cir. 2010) (expressing disapproval of the reliance on Wikipedia and or similarly unreliable 
internet sources); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008) (holding that an article from 
the online encyclopedia Wikipedia is not a reliable source of evidence in immigration proceedings). Even 
then, the article itself mostly focuses on the publisher's history, and does not indicate that inclusion in I b a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion because one of his articles "got accepted as a book 
chapter," and others were cited in forums other than journal articles. Neither the book nor a promotional 
press release advertising the book constitutes qualifying published material about the Petitioner. 
Regarding the specified citations of his work that the Petitioner points to for this category, none of the 
articles is about the Petitioner, or appears to emphasize the Petitioner's work over the other cited works. 
One of the three named citing works is an e-book chapter, which the Petitioner submits with the 
handwritten annotation "look for page #37." Page 37 is the first page of the article's bibliography, listing 
17 articles, including one by the Petitioner. The article is aboutl I I I The second citing work, from a website about rare diseases in India, describes! I . I I an I disease found in a region of Southern India. The Petitioner co-wrote two of 
the seven articles cited as references. The third citation is a listing in a !database. The entry for a 
3 
called lists 53 articles, including one by the Petitioner, not as sources, but as examples of 
scholarly literature discussing the The submitted materials are not about the Petitioner. Rather, 
they include works by the Petitioner in bibliographies or lists of references. The Petitioner's evidence, 
therefore, does not meet the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion because he "published 14 research papers in peer 
reviewed journals and their total number of citations [is] 446." A printout from Google Scholar lists 16 
articles published between 2007 and 2014. Five of those articles have been cited between 45 and 124 
times each; eight others were cited between 4 and 1 7 times. At the time he submitted the printout, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence to give context to the citation figures. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted some of the citing publications and other materials that 
refer, in various ways, to his publications. These materials show that the Petitioner has contributed useful 
knowledge to his field, but the major significance of those contributions is not self-evident. Describing 
contributions does not inherently establish their significance without further context. For example, many 
of the submitted materials indicate that, circa 2010-11, the Petitioner was on a research team at the 
University ______ that developed a lmodel with a 
which other researchers have used in subsequent research. The reliance on this I I model 
appears to underlie many of the citations of the Petitioner's work. But the record does not specify the 
Petitioner's role in developing the model. An associate professor atl I provided a letter on the 
Petitioner's behalf, praising the Petitioner's skills but providing little information about the specific nature 
of the Petitioner's contributions. In the letter, the professor refers to "a I model ... that I have 
created"; he gives no indication that the Petitioner was involved in the creation of the model, rather than 
other tasks ( such as subsequent experiments regarding 
The Petitioner also does not show that the mouse model developed atl I has been of greater 
importance to medical research than countless other! !models developed 
elsewhere. In short, the information about the model relates to some of the Petitioner's 
contributions, but does not specifically identify those contributions or inherently establish their major 
significance relative to the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits web printouts from a website called Dimensions, which evaluates 
citation histories for given articles and indicates that some of his articles are "highly cited" or "extremely 
highly cited." This information provides some context for the citation figures submitted previously, but 
the record still lacks independent, objective evidence to explain how the Petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance such that his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. 
Beyond the citation information, the Petitioner has submitted letters from various mentors, describing the 
work that the Petitioner did in their laboratories, and expressing the opinion that the Petitioner is a highly 
skilled researcher. But these individuals do not explain how his contributions are of major significance 
in the field. We note that, while the Director discussed these letters in the context of the Petitioner's 
contributions, the Petitioner originally submitted them more generally as "recommendation letters." 
4 
While the Petitioner has amply documented his involvement in published medical research, the record 
does not establish how his contributions are of major significance to the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
We note that, while the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfies two of the regulatory criteria, 
neither of those criteria includes internal elements that indicate sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has written scholarly articles, although the Google Scholar printout submitted 
with the petition does not show any articles published after 2014. The Petitioner has not explained or 
addressed this dropoff in research output despite his position as a researcher in biochemistry. He has 
also acted as a judge by peer-reviewing articles written by others, but both of these activities appear 
to be routine for researchers in the Petitioner's field. Additionally, as the Petitioner's individual 
contribution to the research cited has not been fully explained, had the case reached a final merits 
determination, these factors would have received greatly diminished weight. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19550253 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 05, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economics instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professor of economics who has more recently been self-employed. She 
was issued a candidate of science degree in economic science in 2008 by the Supreme Certifying 
Commission of Ukraine, and previously earned a master of economics degree from the I I I I She states that she intends to continue to teach and publish research 
in the field of economics, but also submitted an employment offer from a business in New Jersey for 
a vaguely defined position. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. We agree with the Director's determinations regarding these 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original 
contributions of major significance to the field and a leading or critical role. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we find that the evidence does not establish that she meets either of these 
criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner focuses on several academic and career achievements which she asserts meet the 
requirements of this criterion. One of these is her thesis for her candidate of sciences degree, 
2 
' which introduced economic ~--------------------------~ proposals she asserts were implemented by local and re:ional governments in Ukraine. In support, 
she submitted a letter from a member of the I ~ ICity Council which acknowledges the 
Petitioner's work with this body. The letter provides three examples of the privatization of specific 
businesses for which the Petitioner participated as an expert consultant in public meetings, and also 
notes that she played the same role regarding a city-wide policy on the rent of semi-basements. In 
addition, the letter states that her proposals also led the city council to form a system to monitor the 
use of communal property, and that "in general" she was actively involved in the reform of property 
relations at the city level. Although this evidence shows that she had some influence on aspects of 
economic practice and policy for a major regional city in Ukraine, it does not show that her proposals 
were widely implemented, or that other economic scholars or advisors were influenced by this work. 
Additional evidence of the Petitioner's work with governmental bodies includes one of several reviews 
of her thesis that were written b "o onents" as part of the awarding of her degree. In particular, a 
review authored b Head of the Regional Branch of the State Property Fund of 
Ukraine in~-----~ notes that the "practical importance of individual results of the study is 
confirmed by... implementation in practical activities at the regional level, in particular: Regional 
Branch of the State Property Fund i ~-----------------~ Another review 
provides slightly more detail, indicating that her "practical recommendations on improving the 
mechanism of state regulation of the processes of property relations reform" were used by this body 
in implementing state policy. However, neither these reviews nor other evidence in the record 
provides detail on which proposals included in the Petitioner's thesis were implemented, or the nature 
of their overall impact on privatization reform policies in the region. The fact that some of her 
proposals were implemented at the regional level is not sufficient to demonstrate that this contribution 
was of major significance to the broader field of economics. 
The Petitioner also refers to all eight of the reviews of her thesis which were conducted by "opponents" 
as part of the process in the award of her candidate of science degree as evidence of "acclaim from 
many experts in the field." We note that while all of these individuals are experts in economics, the 
reviews were done solely for the purpose of evaluating whether the Petitioner's thesis showed that she 
was deserving of the degree. Although the record does not include information about the standards 
for awarding the candidate of science degree, many of the reviews mention the novelty of her work 
and her maturity as an economist. For example,! loti I University 
describes the dissertation as "a successful combination in the study of theoretical and methodological 
issues and applied ones," and concludes that "is an independent research on a topical topic, has a 
proper theoretical level, is noted for scientific novelty and practical value" and that the Petitioner 
therefore deserves her degree. 1 While this evidence clearly shows that this thesis was considered an 
original contribution and of sufficient practical value to justify the awarding of a degree, it does not 
demonstrate the dissertation's significance beyond the scope of the degree awarding process. 
Additional evidence regarding the significance of the Petitioner's thesis, as well as her other published 
work in the field of economics, consists of references to her and her work in the publications of other 
economists. Some of these references simply list the Petitioner's name among others credited with 
1 All of the reviews of the Petitioner's thesis, and other reference letters in the record that were written on her behalf: were 
carefully reviewed, including those not explicitly mentioned in this decision. 
3 
publishing on a particular topic, such as a 2015 paper from Scientific Bulletin of Polissia which lists 
her among 10 "national scientists" who have written on property issues. Others refer to a specific 
paper published by her which was used to support their work. We note that several of these indicate 
that they were written by students, and it is not apparent that some were published in scholarly journals 
or presented at conferences. While a high rate of citations to a scholar's published work, or widespread 
commentary from others in the field, may be probative of the significance of their contribution to the 
field, 2 here the Petitioner has not shown that either the quality or quantity of these references is 
indicative of contributions of major significance. 
Another group of achievements highlighted by the Petitioner are those she made to thel I ~---------~I where she served as dean of the economics faculty from 2009 to 2012. 
The evidence shows that in this role and as an assistant professor, and in addition to administrative 
duties, she created program courses and study aids, established an internship program with local 
businesses, and served as an advisor for several graduate students. While the Director concluded, and 
we agree, that this evidence was sufficient to demonstrate her leading role forD (as will be further 
discussed below), it does not show that the impact of these achievements reached beyond0and its 
students and contributed to the broader field of economics. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her activities with the non-governmental organization 
(NGO).__ __________ _. A letter froml I describes the Petitioner's creation 
of business plans for several businesses, and her participation in advocacy efforts on behalf of the 
group with the local and national governments. A second letter from I I submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), adds that she consulted with local entrepreneurs 
and businesses on tax and other issues, and worked with other NGOs to promote entrepreneurship 
amongst women and young people in the area. The Petitioner's aid to local businesses and efforts to 
promote rtrereneurship in the region is commendable, but these two letters do not show that her 
work with made an impact other than to the businesses she directly helped. Notably, the record 
does not include evidence to demonstrate the wider impact of her advocacy on the actions or policies 
of regional or national governmental bodies. 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner refers to several of our non-precedent decisions, focusing on the 
evidence presented in those cases by petitioners seeking classification as noncitizens of extraordinary 
ability. These decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers 
in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner 
points out that in Matter of J-L-, ID# 800261 (AAO Jan. 25, 2018) we considered reference letters as 
probative evidence of"the importance of the EB-1 Petitioner's work," and therefore that the opponent 
reviews of her thesis should be given greater consideration. But the portions of the letters quoted in 
Matter of J-L-describe contributions in detail that went beyond that petitioner's employer and were 
implemented throughout the industry. As described above, the letters submitted on the Petitioner's 
behalf describe her consultations to specific businesses, and only briefly mention the implementation 
of her proposals at the local and regional governmental level without providing detail or context. It is 
therefore insufficient to demonstrate that those contributions were of major significance in her field. 
2 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
4 
After review of the evidence noted above, and other evidence in the record submitted in support of 
this criterion, we conclude that while the Petitioner has demonstrated original contributions to the field 
of economics, she has not established that any of her contributions were of major significance to the 
field. We therefore conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they played either a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment 
has or had a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the noncitizen 
is ( or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), 
in fact, leading. For a role to be considered critical, the evidence must establish that the noncitizen 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her roles withe=] andD Regarding her role as 
the dean of the economics faculty atD from 2009 to 2012, the Director concluded that while it was 
a leading role, the evidence was not sufficient to show that D has a distinguished reputation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence concerning certain graduates of0 should have been 
considered despite its source, and that information from a website should have been considered despite 
the evidence's lack of information about its source. 
While we agree with the Director's concerns rgaring evidence submitted from Wikipedia, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that has a distinguished reputation even when this 
evidence is considered. This evidence includes information about two graduates ofp one who has 
been the mayor ofllfor 10 years and another who is an associate professor at I I luniver~ evidence shows that two of the institution's graduates have had successful 
careers after beginning their post-secondary studies ate=] but does not show that it has a 
distinguished reputation among colleges and universities in Ukraine. Other evidence includes an 
article describingDs history, facilities and educational, but as the Director noted in his decision, 
no information was provided about the source of this material, such as a website address, which would 
allow for verification of its content. On appeal, the Petitioner identifies its source as the website for I t a name which is included in some of the images accompanying the article, but provides 
no further information about this entity. More importan~neither this article nor other information 
in the record provided from other websites suggests thatLJ has a distinguished reputation. None of 
the evidence indicates thatD is widely recognized as a prestigious institution or is highly ranked 
among Ukrainian and European universities. The I I article concludes only that it "is an 
institution that provides a thorough and solid knowledge to its students," a phrase which could be used 
to describe any institution of higher learning. The Wikipedia information indicates thatO received 
a nomination for "Temple of Science" designation in 2005, but very little information is provided 
about this nomination or its meaning. Upon review of the totality of this evidence, we conclude that 
it does not establish that D has a distinguished reputation. 
Turning to the Petitioner's role fore=] the Director concluded that it was neither leading nor critical, 
and that the evidence did not show that it has a distinguished reputation. As noted above, the evidence 
5 
of her role for this NGO includes two letters froml I whom a news article names as the 
head of the organization. In her first letter, she names several businesses for which the Petitioner 
provided business plans, and also states that the Petitioner was "a participant in all mass events to 
defend the interests of entrepreneurs before various bodies of state power and local self-government." 
In the second letter,I I again notes the Petitioner's participation in "mass events" to advocate 
for entrepreneurs, and her consultations with entrepreneurs on tax and other business issues. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that these letters show that she was an active member ofD and that 
the organization "has implemented Petitioner's innovative ideas for helping its members to develop 
businesses." We agree that the evidence shows that she was an active member of the organization, 
andl Is first letter describes her as a co-author of an appeal to the Ukrainian prime minister 
regarding labor legislation and an idea to create something called the ~--------~ 
However, the record does not include sufficient information about the outcome of these projects and 
how they impacted the mission, operations or standing ofc=Jto show that the Petitioner's role was 
critical to the organization's activities. The letters indicate thaD has undertaken many such "mass 
events," and does not show that the Petitioner's participation in the two specific projects described or 
in other projects affected the organization's activities to the extent that her role was critical. 
We farther note that while the Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown thatc=Jhas 
a distinguished reputation, this requirement is not addressed on appeal. The RFE response included a 
single article posted on the website I I otj f 2018 which interviews I I 
about the organization's appeal to a committee of the Ukrainian legislature regarding issues of 
entrepreneurship, but the article simply describes c=J, s advocacy with other entrepreneurial 
organizations and does not distinguish it from these other NGOs. As such, we agree with the 
Director's conclusion that the evidence does not establish thatc=J has a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12483771 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist. She obtained a bachelor's de lastic arts with a ma·or in painting 
from the University.__ _______________________ __. inl I 
Venezuela in 2002. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her 
field and artistic display. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and membership in associations in 
the field, and provides additional evidence in support of these assertions. 1 The Petitioner has not 
pursued her initial claim that she meets the criterion related to published material about her under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), nor does she contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on 
appeal. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in our decision. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "failed to analyze the comparable evidence, nor they [sic] indicate they 
had done do." Prior to the appeaL however, the Petitioner did not rely on comparable evidence to establish her eligibility. 
Because the Petitioner has submitted evidence which she asserts supports her claim to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii), she cannot demonstrate that these criteria do not apply to her occupation as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). We will therefore not further address her claim that the Director failed to analyze comparable evidence. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that she "has been recognized internationally with reco nition awards and 
prizes for her artistic work." The Petitioner asserts that her receipt of th~e_'~--~-----~ 
A ward" from the Venezuelan Chapter of the International Association o ~----' in 2010 is a prize 
of national recognition, noting that an article published in El Universal Caracas discusses the award. 
She also submitted documentation showing her receipt of various "prizes," including a 
.__ ______ ___,Honor Mention" from the I I Museum and a "prize" certificate for 
"Outstanding Participation" inl I' by thel !Museum froml I 
.__ ____ ___,I The record also contains several certificates of recognition acknowledging exhibition 
and her donation of work from the cities o~ I and I I along with articles discussing her 
receipt of various other prizes including the I I Prize" for I f from 
Museum of Contemporary Art.__ ____ ~------,-, 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not submit certified English language translations for each of these 
documents, all of which were foreign language documents. As noted by the Director in the request 
for evidence (RFE), all foreign language documents must be accompanied by a foll translation that the 
translator certifies pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). That provision states: "Any document 
containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a foll English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's 
certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." The 
record reflects that both at the initial filing and in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner 
presented an English translation for each submitted document but did not provide any certificates of 
translation. The English translations do not contain a certification from the translator certifying that 
the translations are complete and accurate, or that the translator is competent to translate from the 
foreign language into English. In fact, none of the translations even identify the translator. Because 
the Petitioner did not offer properly certified English language translations, we cannot meaningfully 
determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports her claims. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the record was insufficient to demonstrate that 
any of the prizes or awards claimed by the Petitioner were nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in her field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her receipt of the I I 
.__ ______ _.Award from the Venezuelan Chapter of the International Association ot1 I 
in 2010 satisfies this criterion, noting that the award received news coverage in El Universal Caracas, 
which she claims is a national news outlet with "a daily circulation of about 150,000." This article, 
like the award certificate, is not accompanied by a certified English translation and therefore has little 
probative value. Moreover, the Petitioner's assertions regarding the publication and its circulation 
statistics are not supported by independent, objective evidence. 
Further, the Petitioner has not presented evidence that this award, or any of the other accolades she 
claims to have received, are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
3 
in the field. 2 Although the Petitioner provides an excerpt (in English) from the I I website 
on appeal which provides the history of the organization, it does not discuss the .......... ! ---~--~I 
A ward or the criteria for receiving such an award. There is insufficient evidence demonstrating that 
the prize awarded byl Ito the Petitioner in 2010 is nationally or internationally recognized in her 
field of endeavor. 
Moreover, despite providing uncertified translations of articles froml I discussing her receipt 
of the I I Prize for I I' the Petitioner did not present any supporting 
evidence documenting her receipt of the award. 3 
Although the uncertified translations have no probative value, they also do not support the Petitioner's 
claims on appeal. The Petitioner did not establish that the prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field, or that the reporting entities enjoy a national or 
international audience.4 For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided articles published in El Mundo, which indicated that 
she was affiliated with the I I Association and collaborated with the I I 
Organization andl I City Council for the I 12009. The Director acknowledged 
that she was mentioned in these articles, but noted that there was no evidence or other indication that 
either of the organizations had bestowed membership on the Petitioner as contemplated by this 
criterion. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The El Mundo articles relied on by the Petitioner are accompanied by uncertified translations. Because 
she did not provide certified translations of the documents, they are of little probative value. 6 
Additionally, as noted by the Director, while the articles suggest her affiliation with these 
organizations for work on certain projects, no documentation or other evidence demonstrating that she 
is a member of either of these organizations is contained in the record. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to previously submitted documentation discussing the purpose and 
mission ofl I Organization. While we acknowledge these assertions, we again note that the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 See id. 
4 See id. 
5 See id. (providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate 
that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon 
recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
6 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
4 
documentation referred to by the Petitioner was not accompanied by certified English translations. 
Moreover, the documentation does not demonstrate that the Petitioner is a member of this 
organization, nor does it outline the membership requirements, if any, for such an organization. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that a previously submitted certificate from the Government of 
the Ministry I I granting her recognition as the Director of I I in I I Venezuela satisfies this criterion. In support ~o-f,....t...,...h-is-a-ss_e_rt_i_o_n_, -th,....e_P_e-ti,....t1.,....· o-n-e~r 
submits an excerpt from I I which provides a general overview of the I I 
indicating that the museum wasl ~nd holds a collection of over 5,000 works by 
prominent Venezuelan and international artists. 
As noted previously, the certificate referred to by the Petitioner is a foreign language document 
accompanied by an uncertified English translation, and thus is of little probative value. Nevertheless, 
the translation provided indicates that the certificate is "thanking his gesture, for the donation of one 
of his pieces of art 'mirrors. "'7 There is no indication that this certificate confers membership upon 
the Petitioner as contemplated by this criterion, and the Petitioner provides no evidence of the 
membership requirements for this organization. Although the Petitioner is recognized as "Director," no 
further context with regard to the nature of this title or position has been provided. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements of any of the referenced organizations' members. 8 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree. The 
Petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she 
actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 9 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided uncertified translation of three certificates she claims 
demonstrate her participation as a judge for various exhibits. 
The record contains a certificate from ' and reco nizes the Petitioner "for 
her valuable artici ation as a ·u " in the exhibition 
.__ ________ __. .__ _________________ ~ 
The Petitioner provided no additional information regarding 
or the nature of the exhibition referred to in the uncertified translation of the 
certificate. As a result, we are unable to determine whether her "participation as a jury" was in the 
same or allied field, which she claims is visual arts. 
7 We note generally that this ce1iificate and many other uncertified English translations for the Petitioner's various 
certificates and awards reference her in masculine terms such as "he" and "his" throughout the record. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
9 See id. 
5 
The Petitioner also provided a certificate from reco the Petitioner for her 
"valuable participation as a guest juror" in the exhibition L..._ __ _,....--------,.........J' Again, the 
record contains no additional information defining the nature of~------~ or the type of 
exhibition referred to in the certificate, which again was not accompanied by a certified translation. 
Additionally, the Petitioner provided a certificate from Museum of Latin American Art, Buenos Aires, 
recognizing the Petitioner for her "outstanding participation as a Jury" in the ~---------' 
The record contains no farther information explaining the nature of this "donation," such that we can 
determine whether her service as a "jury" involved judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization. 
The uncertified translations of the above-referenced certificates do not meet the plain language 
requirements of 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b )(3). Although they purport to acknowledge the Petitioner's service 
as a 'jury" or 'juror," the Petitioner did not provide evidence corroborating the certificates from these 
organizations, such as documentation or letters detailing her responsibilities as a jury member for the 
referenced exhibits or donation, or any other evidence regarding these events and how they were 
judged. Without this evidence, we cannot determine that her role as a 'jury" or 'juror" involved 
judging the work of others in her field. Without certified translations and supporting evidence 
clarifying her role, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree. In order to 
meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the venues where her work was displayed were 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. 10 The record contains a list of her claimed individual and collective 
exhibitions, identifying 12 individual exhibitions and 20 collective exhibitions at various locations in 
Spain and Venezuela. The record, however, is accompanied by uncertified translations of only three 
certificates, two issued by~--------~ and one issued byl I which recognize her 
"participation" in "exhibitions." The certificates do not clarify the nature of the referenced exhibitions 
or the extent of her "participation" in such exhibitions. Further, because the Petitioner did not provide 
certified translations, she did not establish that the submitted documentation accurately supports her 
claims.11 
Moreover, the Petitioner also submitted uncertified translations of an "Undefined Work Contract" 
between the Petitioner and the Museum of1 I as well as a contract between her and I l in support of this criterion. Although the contract with the Museum of.__ ______ __, 
indicated that she would serve as an "honorary counselor," no farther information regarding her roles 
or obligations to this organization was submitted. Moreover, the contact between her and thel I 
was vague and did not define her role. Absent additional evidence, the evidentiary purpose of these 
documents is unclear, as they do not indicate that such agreements were related to the artistic display 
10 See id. 
11 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
6 
of her work. These documents do not demonstrate that her work was displayed at artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion, and we withdraw the 
Director's findings for this issue. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which she must meet at least three to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification. As this determination is dis positive of the appeal, we reserve and 
will not address the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she 
seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, as required by 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5).12 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19407241 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a citizen of Peru, is al I artist and I I painter. Because he has not indicated 
or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met six of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original Contributions 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
• (viii), Leading or Critical Role 
• (x), Commercial Success 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria pertaining to display of 
his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two 
additional criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards and published material. The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he meets the 
criteria related to original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), performing in a leading or 
critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), or commercial success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria in our decision. See, 
e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion related to artistic display. However, the record does not reflect 
that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that an individual 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards (in the plural), that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized, and that the plain language of the regulation also requires evidence that 
each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor rather than simply for participating 
in or contributing to the event. The Petitioner must satisfy all of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims that he has participated in numerous competitions in Peru and received awards 
for excellence in his field, including 1st Place in the I I Painting Competition and 
1st Place in .__ _________ _. contest, both in 2001. In support of this assertion, the 
Petitioner submitted several newspaper articles discussing the competitions published in La Industria, 
which the Petitioner claims is the daily newspaper of the City o~ I The Petitioner also claimed 
that he was invited to participate in various other competitions, and that he also engaged in a 
subsequent display of his work with other prior winners of thel I competition in 1992. 
Counsel's letter of support also claimed that the Petitioner won 3rd Place in the I I I !Painting Competition, but no documentation to support this assertion was submitted. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director noted that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that the 
claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized, and requested additional evidence in 
support of his eligibility under this criterion. 1 In response, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
the websites www.eldominical.pe and www.larepublica.pe in support of the claimed national 
recognition ofthel !contest, as well as a screenshot of the website www.peru.com which the 
Petitioner claimed displays photos of his artwork. No additional evidence pertaining his ~ 
.__ _______ _.' award the.__ ________ __, Painting Competition was provided. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the record was insufficient to demonstrate that 
any of the claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of 
endeavor. The Director determined that absent evidence that the awards received coverage in major 
media or major trade publications, the level of national or international recognition of the awards could 
not be determined. Further, the Director noted that the record lacked documentation from the awarding 
entities detailing the nature of the competitions. 
At the outset, we note that the Petitioner did not submit certified English language translations for any 
of the documents it submitted in support of this criterion. As noted by the Director in the RFE, all 
foreign language documents must be accompanied by a full translation that the translator certifies 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). That provision states: "Any document containing foreign language 
submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator 
has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent 
to translate from the foreign language into English." The record reflects that both at the initial filing 
and in response to the RFE, the Petitioner presented an English translation for each submitted 
document but did not provide any certificates of translation. The English translations do not contain 
a certification from the translator certifying that the translations are complete and accurate, or that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. In fact, none of the 
translations even identify the translator. Because the Petitioner did not offer properly certified English 
language translations, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material submitted 
before the Director is accurate and thus supports his claims. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on thd !Painting Competition, and asserts that 
the Director's finding that this award lacked national or international recognition was erroneous . In 
support of this assertion, the Petitioner submits a letter frortj I Cultural Manager 
and organizer for thel I Painting Competition from 1991-2005 . I I 
provides additional information about the contest, explaining that it was sponsored byl._ ___ __.pnd 
th~ lin conjunction with the Municipality o~ I where it took place. In 
her letter, she states that the Petitioner was the 1st place winner of the contest in 2001 and the 3rd 
place winner of the contest in 2000. According to contest terms and conditions submitted with her 
letter, the contest was open to Peruvian citizens and resident foreigners, and allowed each entrant to 
submit one work of art, with the "techniques used and topics on which they are based" to be freely 
chosen. I lalso confirmed that the competition has been covered in La Industria , as 
previously asserted by the Petitioner. 2 
The Petitioner relies on this evidence, and the perceived reputation of the I I company 
nationally and internationally , as sufficient evidence to establish that the competition is nationally 
recognized in Peru. The Petitioner also points to a letter froml I Chairman of the Jury 
of the competition that was previously submitted, who stated that the Petitioner had won numerous 
national awards and was recognized for his work throughout Peru. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that 
he received the above-referenced awards, he did not submit sufficient documentary evidence that the 
awards garnered national or international-level media coverage to demonstrate that his prizes or 
awards satisfy the plain language requirements of this criterion. The record indicates that the I I Painting Contest received media coverage in La Industria, which appears to be a 
local newspaper based in the city o~ I Despite the assertions of the Petitioner andl I 
who claim that the publication has significant media reach, there are no objective circulation figures 
for the publication showing that its news coverage is indicative of national or international recognition. 
Moreover , as previously noted, the articles submitted from La Industria were not accompanied by the 
requisite certified English translations , and therefore have little probative value. 
2 Unlike the evidence submitted prior to adjudication , all foreign language material submitted on appeal was accompanied 
by certified English translations as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
4 
Moreover, despite the Petitioner's assertions regarding the prestigious reputation of the contest, the 
record is insufficient to support such claims. We acknowledge the supplemental documentation 
submitted on appeal provides additional information regarding the contest, including the fact that it is 
open to all Peruvian citizens or resident foreigners . However , while the Petitioner provides evidence 
indicating the winners were selected from a pool of national contestants , he has failed to produce 
evidence that this award is recognized at a national level. Selection from a national pool of candidates 
does not necessarily impart national significance to an award. Again, media coverage by newspapers 
specific to one location or region, such as La Industria , is insufficient to reflect the award is nationally 
or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner did not establish that the prizes and awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field, or that the reporting entities enjoy a national or international audience. 3 For 
these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, 
we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted several magazine and newspaper articles from 
publications including Aparte, Ellos y Ell as -Caretas, Enfoque (the Sunday Supplement of La Industria ), 
El Comerica , La Industria , Expreso, and Ophelia accompanied by certified English translations. Noting 
that the record did not establish that these articles were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, the Director requested additional evidence regarding these 
publications and their circulation statistics. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted evidence of a Y ouTube video entitled I I 
which the Petitioner claimed was aired on Peruvian television inl 12015. He also submitted 
additional evidence, such as excerpts from the website www.peru.com regarding his work and an article 
published in Peru Shrimp. 
In denying the petition, the Director noted that while the Petitioner asserted that the submitted articles 
were published in major media or professional or major trade publications , he did not supplement the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, supra at appendix , 
5 
record with evidence such as published circulation statistics. The Director also declined to afford 
evidentiary weight to the Petitioner's Y ouTube video. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly analyze information regarding the 
media. The Petitioner submits a letter from the Peruvian Radio and Television Institute, which is 
addressed to the Petitioner and indicates it is in response to the Petitioner's request for "a copy of the 
I !program where you were interviewed onl I 2015." Although the letter states 
that the aforementioned program "aired from 2015 to 2019," and provides link to download a copy of the 
program, there is no information regarding where this program was aired, the nature of this interview, or 
the extent to which the Petitioner was interviewed. 
This regulatory criterion requires "published material" in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media and "the title, date, and author of the material." Video clips are not published material in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Absent additional evidence, the Petitioner did not establish that the screenshot of the 
Y ouTube video constitutes published material about him relating to his work. The Petitioner did not 
provide a transcript or other evidence detailing or showing the content of the material. 
The Petitioner also provided no information related to the distribution data of the newspapers or 
magazines in which the presented articles were featured to establish this published material has a 
national rather than a regional reach within country. Publications with only a regional reach are not 
generally considered to be major media and the Petitioner has not established these publications are 
professional or major trade publications as required by the regulation . The Petitioner submitted no 
additional evidence that might amount to major media, professional publications, or major trade 
publications, and on appeal acknowledges that "[a]dmittedly we did not provide circulation statistics 
for the publications where articles appeared about the beneficiary and his work," and that "we made 
every effort to secure circulation statistics without success." Although the Petitioner asserts that El 
Comerica "is the oldest and largest national newspaper in Peru" and provides a report from Reporters 
Without Borders commenting on the Internet traffic for the El Comerica Group, this documentation 
alone does not demonstrate that El Comerica is a professional or major trade publications or other 
major media as contemplated by this criterion. Additionally, the Petitioner's assertions regarding the 
publication La Industria are not supported by independent, objective evidence . 
Further, as noted by the Director, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the 
publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. 
July 6, 2007) ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that we did not have to rely on a 
company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). Additionally, as the Director further noted, there are no assurances about the reliability of the 
content from Wikipedia , an open, user-edited internet site. See Lamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey , 
540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 19083537 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Date: JAN. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software developer and financial analyst, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he is the vice president of application development and a collateralized loan 
obligation (CLO) specialist atl I al I hedge fund for 
whom be currently works in H-IB nonimmigrant status. He previously worked as a sollware engineer 
at and as a programmer analyst and development database administrator for 
I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Petitioner also claims to have submitted comparable evidence beyond the regulatory criteria. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of these criteria, numbered (viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he has submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy the other five claimed criteria 
as well as comparable evidence. We will discuss these claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
The Petitioner initially cited his membership in th ______________ but he does 
not mention this membership on appeal. Therefore, we conclude that he has abandoned this claim. 1 
The appeal focuses on the Petitioner's title of "Chartered Financial Analyst" (CFA) from the CFA 
Institute. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the CF A Institute requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. We agree. 
The record shows that, while the CF A Institute has members, the Petitioner's CF A charter is not, itself, a 
membership in an association. Rather, it is a "credential" earned by "candidates who enroll in [a] 
program" and "appear for three stages of exams," each with a pass rate of around 50%; roughly 16% of 
enrollees earn the charter each year.2 Successful completion of what a CFA official calls a "professional 
licensing test," however difficult or rigorous, is not inherently an outstanding achievement. 
The Petitioner asserts: "Becoming a CF A Charterholder requires more than merely passing all three 
exams." But the other requirements -such as a bachelor's degree or near-completion of a baccalaureate 
program, or 4000 hours of work experience- are not outstanding achievements either. 
Materials in the record indicate that "[m]ore than 100,000 people take the test ... every year," meaning 
that, even with the claimed completion rate of around 16%, more than 16,000 people earn CF A charters 
every year. The president and chief executive officer of the CF A Institute states: "We have 
approximately 170,000 Charter Holders today." The Petitioner has not established that these figures are 
consistent with the exclusivity that the regulation requires. The Institute's president does not assert that 
recognized national or international experts judge applicants' achievements. 
The Petitioner has not established that his CF A charter constitutes a qualifying membership. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that the Director "erred in discounting the Petitioner's receipt of awards 
including the CFA Charter, as well as the Options Award for 'Outstanding Achievement by a Loan 
Specialty Technologist in the CLO Space,' a 'Certificate of Excellence' from Microsoft, and a '5-Year 
Milestone' award from the CFA Institute." The Petitioner does not elaborate as to how the Director erred 
with regard to these claimed awards. The general assertion that the Director erred does not identify any 
specific error oflaw or fact as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). 3 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'yGen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 An article in the record indicates that "somewhere between 10% and 20% of candidates who sign up for the exam end 
up not showing up for the test." The article does not specify whether the pass rates take those figures into account. 
3 See also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F .2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references 
to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
3 
The only claimed award for which the Petitioner offers substantive and specific discussion on appeal is 
his CF A charter, discussed above. He contends that the charter is so rigorous and coveted that it 
constitutes an award as well as a membership. The Petitioner asserts that "CF A examinations are 
considered to be one of the toughest exams to pass," and that "CFAA charter holders [are] more sought 
after by wealth management firms due to their investment specific niche knowledge and skills." The 
Petitioner has not established that an occupational credential, earned by passing an examination, 
constitutes a prize or award for excellence. Furthermore, the record shows that thousands of individuals 
pass the exam, and thereby earn the charter, every year. (Articles in the record compare the CF A charter 
to a master's degree, which is a mark of expertise and achievement, but not inherently a prize or award.) 
The Petitioner has not shown that the conveyance of these charters attracts national or international 
recognition. (The regulation requires recognition of the award itself; the reputation of the awarding entity 
does not establish that recognition.) 
The Petitioner has not established that his CF A charter is a nationally or internationally recognized award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner participated in a panel discussion at what he deems a "prestigious industry conference." 
He contends that media coverage of this conference satisfies this regulatory criterion, and also that his 
participation is, itself,comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4). He does not establish how this 
presentation is comparable to any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) that do not readily 
apply to his occupation. The Petitioner submits no evidence to support his claim that his invitation to 
participate in that panel is "recognition of his prestige in the industry." His very presence at the event 
does not warrant such an inference. As noted above, the burden of proof is on the Petitioner. The 
assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 
1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). A press release in the 
record shows that the Petitioner's employer is a client of the organization that held the conference. 
The claimed published material is in the form of a blog post on the conference organizer's website. The 
Petitioner does not submit evidence to show that this blog qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. 
Furthermore, the blog post is not published material about the Petitioner, as the regulation requires. 
Instead, the blog post is about "alternative data" and "a panel discussion on the topic" at the 
aforementioned conference. The Petitioner's name appears only once in the post, in a sentence naming 
all the panel members, and there is no other recognizable reference to the Petitioner's work in particular. 
The submitted printout of a blog post does not satisfy the requirements of the regulation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
4 
The Petitioner asserts that his $150,000 annual salary meets this criterion. The Director initially stated, 
in a request for evidence, that the Petitioner meets the criterion, but the Director retracted this 
determination in the denial notice. In denying the petition, the Director stated that the Petitioner did not 
document his salary, but this assertion is incorrect. The record contains tax documents showing that I paid the Beneficiary $158,329 in 2018 and $158,898 in 2019. Payroll receipts from late 2019 
show a base salary of $150,000 per year. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner's identification of the above errors by the Director is not dispositive. The 
regulation requires comparison of the Petitioner's compensation to others in the field. The Petitioner 
submits salary statistics for software developers, such as Department of Labor data indicating that the 
Level 4 wage for "Software Developers, Applications" in thel I metropolitan area is $137,426 
per year. In this respect, the Petitioner clearly represents his "field" as that of a software developer. 
But the record does not consistently portray the Petitioner simply as a software developer. In this respect, 
it is significant that the Petitioner heavily emphasizes his title as a chartered financial analyst, contending 
that this title alone suffices to satisfy two of the regulatory criteria. The record does not indicate, and the 
Petitioner does not expressly claim, that the job titles "financial analyst" and "software developer" are 
largely interchangeable. Rather, an article about the CF A exam indicates that it "covers topics ranging 
from ethics and professional standards, to quantitative methods, economics, financial reporting and 
analysis, corporate finance, equity investments, derivatives, alternate investments, portfolio management, 
and wealth planning." The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to provide a basis for 
comparing his salary to that of other individuals with the duties of not only a software developer, but also 
of a chartered financial analyst. We also cannot ignore that the Petitioner describes himself as the vice 
president of a hedge fund and a CLO specialist. The Petitioner has not established that, or explained why, 
salary information for software developers is the appropriate metric for comparing his compensation to 
that of others in the same field. 
The above discussion shows that the Petitioner did not meet four of the six claimed criteria ( or provide 
comparable evidence). Therefore, the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining one claimed criterion, 
relating to original contributions of major significance, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 Likewise, we need not revisit the criterion granted by the Director, 
relating to performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). When considering the 
broader question of acclaim, the Petitioner states that his contributions are "proprietary technology, 
and hedge funds do not share their proprietary information." This assertion inherently argues against 
the conclusion that his work has earned him recognition not just from his employer, but throughout 
the field. The Petitioner has documented a measure of success in his field, but he has not shown the 
widespread national or international recognition that the statute and regulations demand. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 15236626 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Date: JAN. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a wood carving craftsman, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a wood carving craftsman, specializes in the field of woodcarving. 
He claims that he has worked as a wood craftsman and has displayed his works at numerous venues 
and exhibitions. 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner's initial Form 1-140 indicated he was applying for a national interest waiver as a 
member of the professions holding an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability. 1 See 
the Act section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2). The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) 
noting the table of contents and submitted evidence indicated the Petitioner sought classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability rather than an individual of exceptional ability and therefore would 
consider the petition as a request for an individual of extraordinary ability. The RFE requested additional 
evidence to determine if the Petition met seven of the ten criteria for an individual of extraordinary ability 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner responded to the RFE with a letter from counsel 
stating the Petitioner "is an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of_____ 
woodcarving, who has demonstrated that he has sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. Additionally, he submitted more 
evidence for consideration as an individual of extraordinary ability and did not contest the Director's 
decision to proceed with an analysis of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director denied the petition, noting that he considered the Petitioner's initial request to seek 
classification as an alien of exceptional ability to be a clerical error and found the Petitioner did not 
meet the criteria for an individual of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter 
from counsel indicating he now wishes to be classified as "an individual of exceptional ability in 
accordance with section 203(b)(2) of the Act ... and/or as an individual with extraordinary ability in 
accordance with section 203(b)(l) of the Act." We are unable to consider both visa preference 
1 In the initial 1-140, the Petitioner checked box 1.h in Part 2, Petition Type, indicating he was applying for a national 
interest waiver as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability. 
2 
categories as the Petitioner must file a separate Form 1-140 for each requested visa category and pay 
the required fee for each submitted Form 1-140, which the Petitioner has not done in this case.2 
Additionally, a petitioner may not raise a previously unclaimed eligibility criterion for the first time 
on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Cf Matter of Jimenez, 21 I&N 
Dec. 567, 570 n.2 (BIA 1996) (finding that claims of eligibility for a waiver presented for the first 
time on appeal are not properly before the Board of Immigration Appeals and that the Board will not 
issue a determination on the matter). If the petitioner had wanted those claims to be considered, he 
should have presented those claims and submitted evidence pertaining to those claims with the 
petition. 
We will therefore only consider whether the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria for recognition as an 
individual of extraordinary ability as that is the visa category to which the Petitioner submitted 
evidence during his initial petition as well as in response to the Director's RFE. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met seven of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria pertammg to 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
meets the additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria related to participation as a judge. 
However, the record does not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
2 Petition Filing and Processing Procedures for Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, If You Want USCIS to 
Consider Multiple Visa Categories for a Beneficia1y, located at: https://www.uscis.gov/forms/all-forms/petition-filing­
and-processing-procedures- for-form-i-140-immigrant-petition- for-alien-worker. 
3 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence in his field. While the 
Director acknowledged his submissions of documentation establishing his receipt of numerous 
awards, he determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the referenced awards were 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous, noting that the letters and 
documentation submitted in support of the petition establish the national and international recognition 
of the awards beyond the awarding entities. For example, the Petitioner asserts that his selection for 
the UNESCO Seal of Excellence required him to meet a rigorous selection criteria, as explained in 
documentation from UNESCO. He further asserts that his receipt of two "Best Craftsman of the Year" 
awards in 2012 and 2015 froml I competitions in I I constitutes a nationally 
recognized award as recognition of his craftsmanship In support of his assertion, the Petitioner 
provided UzDaily online articles announcing the 2015 competition would be taking place 
as well as the announcement of the winners from the 2015 competition. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. While the record indicates the Petitioner received 
the UNESCO Seal of Excellence it does not establish that this constitutes an award that is nationally 
or internationally recognized. A prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition 
from the competition in which it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued 
the award. Rather, the national and international recognition results through the awareness of the 
accolade in the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident 
through specific means; for example but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation indicating that his receipt of this award was 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
Additionally, the Petitioner submitted evidence alleging he received two awards for Best Craftsman 
of the Year fromI I competitions I in 2012 and 2015. However, the media article submitted 
regarding the 2015 competition does not list the Petitioner as an award winner from the 
competition but instead lists another participate as earning the Best Craftsman award. When the record 
includes inconsistent evidence, "it is incumbent upon the [P]etitioner to resolve the inconsistencies by 
independent objective evidence" and that "[aa ]ttempts to explain or reconcile the conflicting accounts, 
absent competent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies, will not suffice." See 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner's submission of a certificate 
indicating he was awarded Best Craftsman of the Year during the 20151 I does little to clarify 
whether it was the Petitioner or the other individual listed in the article that won Best Craftsman of the 
Year. As such, the Petitioner has not shown that he earned an award in 2015. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any documentation indicating his receipt of the 2012 award was nationally 
or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence indicating these awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized. While the above materials, and others in the record, 3 confirm the Petitioner's receipt of 
various awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 4 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
4 
The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the wood craftsman field, as required. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed his membership in I I the Association of Artisans, 
Craftsmen, and Folkists ofl I After reviewing the Petitioner's 
material, the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because 
he did not establish that the associations required outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership or that admittance was determined by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. Specifically, the Director determined that while the record contained letters 
from individuals discussing the membership requirements for the association, they were not 
supported by corroborating evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the support 
letters previously submitted by association members demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established 
that his claimed association requires outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. For 
example, the Petitioner presented evidence that he was a member ofl I and relied on 
a letter from the unidentified head of I Regional Department of I I, who 
outlined the requirements the Petitioner met for membership. 5 While the author of the letter 
stated the I !Association requires outstanding achievement of its members, as judge 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of Folk Arts," no 
independent documentation to support these assertions was submitted. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. See 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), c~ffd, 905 F. 2d 41 
(2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). A letter 
from CEO of I I indicated the association covered 13 
departments and 157 divisions with 15,000 craftsmen as members. However, the letter does 
not describe the requirements of membership inl I 
While the referenced letters confirm the Petitioner's claimed memberships in the above­
referenced association, along with their missions, he failed to submit evidence of the 
membership requirements for these associations. The record lacks documentation, such as 
bylaws, membership requirements, or other appropriate evidence, establishing that the 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
5 The name of the author of the letter was not translated or otherwise identified in the record. 
5 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or field. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies 
the regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted an undated article titled I !written by 7The article offers a brief biography of the Petitioner as well 
as his background in wood carving but does not indicate where the article was published. The Petitioner 
submitted a letter, dated October 2018, from I the I I of Buxoroyi Shifokori, which, 
I asserts I the Petitioner published an article, titled 
in Buxoroyi Sh#fokori about rug weaving in Uzbekistan, and claims the Petitioner's s 
expertise lies in oriental rugs. The letter concludes that the Petitioner has published an article in Buxoroyi 
Shifokori regarding the art of wood carving titled
which appeared in the paper onl 12017, and was edited by In res onse to the . 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter dated April 16, 2020, from____ the
I ofBuxorovi Shifokori which states I I I edited an article about the Petitioner titled 
e The letter claims the article describes the Petitioner's "novel 
decorations of customary workmanship" and indicates Buxoroyi Shifokori is a weekly "Wednesday 
newspaper supplement" dedicated to fashion, living, beauty, etc. and is published on a weekly or monthly 
basis. 
Here, we find the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that the published material about him appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The first letter from the publisher has 
little probative value as it described a separate article published by the Petitioner about rug weaving, 
which is unrelated to the Petitioner's work in the wood working field, while giving no information about 
Buxoroyi Sh#fokori's status as a professional or major trade publication or other media. Additionally, the 
second letter from the publisher described Buxorovi Sh[fokori as a weekly newspaper supplement but 
provided no documentation indicating Buxorovi Shifokori is a professional or major trade publication or 
has a significant national or international distribution that would indicate it would qualify as major media. 
We also find that the Petitioner has not provided the published item's title, date, and author. Here, the 
record contains inconsistencies regarding the title of the published item. The title appearing in the copy 
of the published item submitted with the original petition differs significantly from the titles listed in the 
6 Although the Director specifically requested documentation such as the relevant sections of the bylaws and constitutions 
to demonstrate the membership requirements of the respective organizations and associations, the Petitioner declined to 
submit such evidence. As the record does not contain official documentation of the associations' membership criteria, we 
cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's memberships are qualifying. Failure to submit requested evidence which 
precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
7 The translation of the article did not include a date of publication or indicate where the article was published . I __ 
name appeared at the bottom of the translated article but no other authors were identified. 
6 
two letters fro of Buxoroyi Shifokori. Additionally, the copy of the published item attributes as as the author while the letters from the publisher indicated the Petitioner authored the 
article himselfwhild was the editor. The record contains inconsistent documentation 
relating to the title and author of the published item, which must be resolved with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). The record does not contain any independent, objective evidence that clarifies the title of the 
published item or the name of the author. 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that his ability to revive 
I I methods to make woodworking more sustainable, his "rethinking and creative 
modification" of woodcarving styles, along with several reference letters 
commenting on these achievements, demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his wood working through recommendation letters praising him for his works, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the 
letters recount the Petitioner's achievements in wood working but do not demonstrate that his 
contributions in the field of wood working have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's discounting of the numerous opinion letters he submitted was 
erroneous. Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner rovided a letter from director of 
that stated the Petitioner had a "huge impact on
_ craftsmanship." __ claimed the Petitioner is an "internationally acclaimed artist and 
master of decorative and architectural wood carving" as well as the "[ w ]inner of the coveted title of 
International Wood Carver of the Year, awarded by thel I The letter from I I also alleges the Petitioner "produced treasures that grace royal palaces and architecture of all 
kinds." 
Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more 
or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held 
that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
7 
22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only 
encourage , but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where 
available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity , detail, or credibility, there is a greater need 
for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence . Matter o(Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Here, the letter from I does not appear credible asI does not mention how he became 
familiar with the Petitioner's work and the assertions made regarding the Petitioner's award of 
International Wood Carver of the Year as well as having his products displayed in royal palaces are 
not corroborated by independent evidence in the record. The record does not include evidence of, or 
mention of, an International Wood Carver award. Additionally , the record does not mention the 
Petitioner's work being displayed in royal palaces as the documentation of the Petitioner's work 
product in the record only includes a business card and unattributed pictures of the Petitioner sitting 
in front of a display of finished wood working crafts as well as pictures purporting to be wood working 
products completed by the Petitioner. 
The letters from the Petitioner 's business colleagues.I I and I indicate 
the Petitioner uses the highest quality materials and creates outstanding wood carvings. However , the 
letters do not provide specific examples of the Petitioner 's contributions to wood carving or how his 
contributions influenced the wood carving field. Vague, solicited letters from local colleagues that do 
not specifically identify contributions or provide specific examples of how those contributions 
influenced the field are insufficient.9 Although the Petitioner's colleagues recognize the Petitioner's 
talent, they do not describe the Petitioner 's accomplishments with specificity or provide a nexus 
between his talents and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major significance 
in his field. 
Similarly, the letters froml from the __________ andI I froml indicate the Petitioner is very talented in his field but do not specifically 
identify his contributions or indicate how they influenced his field. For example, ! I stated 
the Petitioner has an "innovative nature and is an accomplished ace" who has been "highlighted in 
both neighborhood and national magazines and books." I I stated the Petitioner is a "regarded 
master of his work" who "adorns his artful culmination with splendidly and uncommon completed 
points of interest." While these letters include high praise for the Petitioner, they do not contain 
enough specificity regarding the Petitioner's contributions to wood working or how these 
contributions influenced his field. Additionally ,! • I claimed that the Petitioner's use of 
"animal like structures" is an impressive contribution, however it must be demonstrated that such 
contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the level of contributions of major 
significance, the Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on similar wood carvers and 
similar works of wood carvings. Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the 
field as a whole). Although I recognizes the Petitioner's use of animal like structures as an 
9 Officers should take into account the probative analysis that experts in the field may provide in opinion letters regarding 
the significance of the person's contributions in order to assist in giving an assessment of the person's original contributions 
of major significance. That said, not all expert letters provide such analysis. Letters that specifically articulate how the 
person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that 
lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy­
manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 
accomplishment, he does not provide the nexus between the Petitioner's talents and the manner in 
which he has made original contributions of major significance in his field 
The remaining letters ertainin to the Petitioner's work appear to have little probative value. The 
letter from the CEO o appears to reference a different individual 
who is an expert in ceramics. The letter from___ member of the Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry I I appears to include boilerplate language similar to other documents in the 
record. As a general concept, when an alien has provided affidavits from different persons that 
contribute to the alien's eligibility claim, but the language and structure contained within the affidavits 
is strikingly similar, the trier of fact may treat those similarities as a basis for questioning the claims 
of the alien. See Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006). 
When affidavits contain such similarities , it is reasonable to infer that the alien who submitted the 
strikingly similar documents is the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. See 
Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007). The letter from l I 
indicates the Petitioner's talents have "been recognized by local people and foreign citizens" but then 
states the Petitioner was "the lead rug weaver." As mentioned above, the letter froml I the I lof Buxoroyi Shifokori, includes an irrelevant section claiming the Petitioner published articles 
about rug weaving. These mentions to rug weaving have a striking similarity and appear to serve no 
purpose in explaining the Petitioner 's talents in wood carving but bring into question the validity of these 
letters. 
While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of his work, the record does not show 
how his wood carvings have had a majorly significant impact in the field, have significantly influenced 
the work of other wood carvers, or otherwise equate to original artistic contributions of major 
significance in the field. The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's wood carving 
techniques and products have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply 
stating that the work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has 
majorly impacted the field of wood carving is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his 
accomplishments and their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the 
Petitioner 's wood carving has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 10 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on several of our non-precedent decision as well as Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) in support of the assertion that the Director should have accepted 
the expert opinion letters as evidence. Specifically, the Petitioner states that the court in Buletini "held 
that expert statements respecting the Petitioner's contributions must be fully considered, even if the 
expert opinions came from people who knew or had worked with the Beneficiary. " Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1232. Regarding the contributions criterion, the Buletini court was referring to the 
Director's failure to consider all the forms of evidence that the Petitioner in that case submitted such 
as the book he authored, the Petitioner's medical dictionary he authored, and the Petitioner's study 
that appeared in the largest circulation newspaper in the Petitioner's home nation. Id. at 1232-1233. 
These are forms of evidence that the Buletini court determined the Director had failed to consider; the 
court did not indicate that the Director was required to discuss each and every piece of evidence within 
the record. Here, we have considered the letters and find them insufficient to establish eligibility for 
10 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 
the criterion because they do not discuss the impact of the Petitioner's work and show that it has been 
of major significance to the field, as required by the plain language of the regulation. Moreover, 
although the Petitioner references non-precedent decisions by our office, these decisions were not 
published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, the Petitioner's appellate brief argues he has significantly impacted the field by making wood 
carving "more sustainable" as well as by "rethinking and creative modification ofl I 
woodcarving styles." Counsel also argues the Petitioner is one of the few "masters of woodcarving in I I who work in three-dimensional style, in which he uses various stones, miniatures, and 
engraves." The unsupported statements of counsel on appeal or in a motion are not evidence and thus 
are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. See INS v. Phinpathya, 464 U.S. 183, 188-89 n.6 (1984). 
The assertions made in his appellate brief are not supported by the expert testimony or other documents 
in the record and therefore are not entitled to any evidentiary weight in determining if the Petitioner 
has made contributions of major significance to his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively , the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), a petitioner must establish that 
they have authored scholarly articles in the field and the publication qualifies as a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or other major media. 11 Upon review of the record, we concur 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner argues he has written scholarly articles in the form of an article titled I ___ I I" dated 2016, a 2013 non-fictional book titled I" as well as a collection 
of articles titled As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly 
article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a 
researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. 
In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes , or a bibliography , and may include graphs, charts, 
videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. For other fields, a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship") . 12 Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated he has written scholarly articles. His'----------" 
article is a half-page, five paragraph summary of the history of wood carving published in the Bukhara 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix , https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
12 See Webster's II New College Dictionary (3rd ed. 2005). 
Mavjlari magazine. The article offers a basic lesson on the history of wood carving that gives no 
indication that it was written for learned persons in the wood carving field. The Petitioner's book, 
is described in the record through a book review written by I The 
review indicates the book is "an absolutely first-rate book for beginners in wood sculpture, well 
thought out and well executed." Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his article or book are 
scholarly articles as they appear to be written for a general readership or amateur wood carvers rather 
than learned individuals. 
The Petitioner also claims he published a scholarly article in
______ 2017. The article, titled is a three-
page history of the development of wood working and historical methods of wood working. While 
the article includes a bibliography citing two books dealing with ancient cultures of the Near East, the 
article does not appear to report on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. The 
record also does not contain any evidence that indicates this article was written for learned persons in 
the field rather than a history lesson for the general public or amateur wood carvers. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not provided any information demonstrating the publishers of his articles 
and book are professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner did not 
provide any additional information on the Bukhoro Mavjlari magazine, his book publisher, or the 
that would indicate they are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that he has authored scholarly articles 
in the field and the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other 
major media. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), a petitioner must establish 
that the display work is his work product and the venues where the individuals work was displayed 
were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 13 Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner indicates he displayed his wood carvings at the following venues: 
• Central Asia Crafts Art Fair, 12013; 
• Tashabbus-2015j 2015; • I I regional stage of Tashabbus-2015, 2015; 
• Country Folks Crafts Show, 2017; • I I Folk Art Market 2017; 
• Renegade Craft, 2018; 
• Cultural Survival Bazaar, 2017; and 
13 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
11 
• Souvenir and Resort Gift Show, 2019. 
First, we note that the !souvenir and Resort Gift Show took place from I I 2019, 
after the Petitioner filed his Form 1-140 on March 11, 2019. Eligibility must be established at the time 
of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 
1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a 
new set of facts. Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). Since this gift show took 
place after the time of filing, it cannot serve to establish eligibility under this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases as 
he has not submitted evidence that his work was actually displayed or that the displayed work was his 
work product. As proof of the display of his work, the Petitioner offers various diplomas and 
certificates. However, these diplomas and certificates provide limited probative value in showing his 
work was displayed. For example, the diploma for the I • I simply states it is a "certificate" but 
does not indicate the certificate was presented for the Petitioner's display of his work at an artistic 
exhibition. Similarly, the diplomas from Tashabbus-2015 indicate the Petitioner was entered into a 
talent contest but does not otherwise indicate the Petitioner displayed his work at an artistic exhibition. 
The Petitioner also received a certificate of appreciation from thel I Folk Art Market, a 
certificate of attendance at the Renegade Craft, and a certificate of participation at the Cultural Survival 
Bazaar. However, the record does not include any evidence that indicates that these certificates show 
the Petitioner displayed his work at an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I owner and president of the I ______ 
Craft Shows indicated the Petitioner, along with I I participated in the craft show. The 
letter stated the Petitioner displayed and presented his products in an attractive and professional 
manner and his presence at the show "enabled show attendees to communicate directly with him about 
I Is beautiful hand made lfolk art creations." While this letter provides details 
indicating the Petitioner participated in the craft show and displayed products, it does not show that 
the Petitioner displayed his own work product. The letter does not describe the Petitioner's 
relationship to I I or whether he was displaying I products or his own. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that the display work is his work product 
and the venues where the individuals work was displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
12 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10299398 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tennis club, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a professional tennis coach, as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Beneficiary met the initial evidentiary criteria, it did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrate that he was among those at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reconsider; the Director dismissed the motion. The 
Petitioner now appeals the Director's dismissal of the motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for the 
requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision on motion and remand for further review of the record and a new 
decision. 
The regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 103. 3( a)( 1 )(i) states that when denying a petition, the Director shall exp lain 
in writing the specific reasons for denial. The Director dismissed the motion stating, in part, that the 
Beneficiary did not establish that the decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of record at the 
time. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points out that the Director issued a one-page decision and did not address 
any arguments presented by the Petitioner on motion. The Petitioner also notes that the Director stated 
that "[t]his motion is not accompanied by new evidence ." The Petitioner asserts that it was not 
required to submit new evidence since it filed a motion to reconsider and in accordance with 
1 Appeals filed by representatives must contain a new, properly executed Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as 
Attorney or Accredited Representative. 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a). As we advised the Petitioner in our April 6, 2020 
correspondence , the Form G-28 filed on appeal was not properly executed . Accordingly we consider the Petitioner to be 
self-represented in this matter. 
requirements of a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), the Petitioner explained why the 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw and the evidence ofrecord. 
Upon review, we agree that the Director did not provide any analysis or address the Petitioner's 
arguments on motion to explain why the Director's decision was correct based upon application of 
law or policy and evidence in the record at the time. When denying a motion, the Director must fully 
explain the reasons in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and 
provide an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. Cf Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected party a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Therefore, we are remanding the 
case to the Director for further review and to sufficiently explain why the motion did not establish that 
the decision was incorrect. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20453097 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who operates a weight loss center, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
When the Petitioner filed her appeal in October 2021, she asserted that she would submit a brief within 
30 days. To date, eight months later, the record does not contain any further brief, and the Petitioner 
has requested that we expedite the processing of the appeal. Therefore, we consider the record to be 
complete as it now stands. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a medical degree and, as she describes it, "has extended training in the area of 
psychology, business coaching, and cosmetology." The record contains little information about the 
Petitioner's employment in her native Ukraine, but the record indicates that she owned a business there 
called! I The Petitioner entered the United States in 2015 as a B-1 
nonimmigrant visitor for business. Since that time, she has been in the United States as either a B-1 
visitor or an E-2 nonimmigrant treaty investor, running her 
own business, I which 
operates I in Georgia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, relating to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards; membership in associations that require outstanding 
achievements; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all four claimed criteria. Upon review of1he 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only one criterion. We will discuss 
the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed five qualifyingprizes or awards. Following a request for evidence (RFE), 
the Petitioner stated that "[t]he most significant awards" she received are the three described below.1 
1 The Petitioner's other two claimed awards are a di loma reco izinher "successful im lementation ofl 
'fr and the 
Ukrainian andadi lomafromtheDe artmentof 
Medical Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy and Balneology at the I !recognizing her work training "highly qualified personnel" for "health and beauty centers." Because the 
2 
The Civil Service Component of Accountability and Effectiveness of Ukrainian 
gave the Petitioner an undated citation for providing "professional and specialized training in Conflict 
Management" to "judges and court personnel." In 2006, the Citywide Information Forum of the State 
Service of Employment in Ukraine, gave the Petitioner a clock and a diploma "for her fruitful 
cooperation withl Employment Centre on the issues of implementation of the overnmental 
o lie for ub lie em lo ment." Fin all , the Petitionerreceived a certificate in 2 007 from the 
the 
and th ___________ -·----------------' 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence that the claimed prizes meet the requirements set forth in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In response, the Petitioner provided her own declaration with 
additional claimed details about the awards, but she did not submit any further corroborating evidence. 
A petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance of the 
evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Furthermore, section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act requires "extensive documentation" of recognition. Because the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence to support her assertions, she has not met this burden. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established "that the primary purpose of the prizes or 
awards was to recognize excellence in the beneficiary's field." The Director also noted that some of the 
awards appear to be "local or regional in nature." 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that she has received qualifying awards, but she does not cite any 
evidence to support her assertions. The 2006 Citywide Information Forum award was granted by a 
municipal authority, with no evidence of wider recognition. The undated citation relating to conflict 
management training is from an organization that received funding from the European Union, but it does 
not follow that the citation is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award from the European 
Union itself. The Petitioner has not shown that her receipt of either of these documents attracted 
recognition at a national or international level. The certificates appear to recognize the Petitioner's 
completion of specific short-term projects for what appear to be clients, ratherthan excellence in her field. 
Regarding the 2007 certificate, the Petitioner asserts that she presented a project at a competition 
for which one of the judges was I the founder of I The 
Petitioner asserts: "There could be no higher measure of excellence than winning a [competition] that 
is judged by the founder of the method that was a subject of the competition." I I signed 
the certificate, in his capacity as president of the I I I I But the record does not reliably corroborate the Petitioner's narrative of the events 
surrounding her receipt of the certificate. The English translation of the key portion of the certificate 
reads: 
Petitioner has not addressed the Director's conclusions regarding these two claimed a wards, we conclude that she has 
abandonedherclaimsregardingthem. See MatterofR-A-M-, 25 T&NDec. 657,658 n.2(BTA2012)(statingthatwhen a 
filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 
1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09---CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims 
were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Certificate 
of 
Ocompetition Winner 
This is issued to 
[ the Petitioner] 
to confinn her participation in Research-to-Practice Workshop I in Action 
(theory and practice 5 hours in total) 
Apart from the Petitioner's name and the two signatures, the text of the o original certificate is printed 
except for the phrase "nobedumerb kohkypc ' translated as Competition Winner," which 
has been handwritten under the word "Cepmuqukam" ("Ce1iificate"). Apart from this handwritten 
addition, the ce1iificate includes no other reference to any competition, and the Petitioner has submitted 
no other evidence about the claimed competition. 
Whatever the circumstances of this handwritten addition, the printed text shows that the certificate was 
printed for the purpose of documenting participation in a five-hour training workshop, rather than the 
receipt of any award arising from that participation. The Petitioner has not established thatthe completion 
of occupational training amounts to a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in her field. 
With respect to the requirement that the awards recognize excellence in the Petitioner's field, the 
Petitioner does not explain how any of these claimed awards directly relate to her current field of 
endeavor, which involves management of a weight loss clinic. 
The Petitioner has not documented her receipt of qualifying prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion through her membership in the All-Ukrainian Association 
of Physiotherapists and Balneotherapists (AAPB) and the All-Ukrainian Association of Applied 
Aesthetics Experts (AAAAE). The Petitioner has not shown that either organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The letter attesting to her membership in the AAPB states that the Petitioner became a member in 2000, 
"for active participation in scientific and practical work, the development of innovative drives in 
physiotherapy and balneology sectors, based on the high results shown, on the recommendation of [an] 
'AAPB' honorary member." 
The letter confirming the Petitioner's AAAAE membership describes projects in which the Petitioner 
participated, but does not indicate that the organization requires outstanding achievements as a condition 
of membership. Rather, the letter indicates that the Petitioner was involved in the organization since its 
incorporation in 2001, and "took an active part in its development." 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion that "[t]he listed associations do not require 
outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership." The Petitioner 
contends that this conclusion "is not founded on any evidence provided to the USCIS." The burden of 
proof is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility; there is no presumption that the Petitioner's memberships 
meet the requirements, which the Director must then rebut. The minimal information that the Petitioner 
has provided about the associations and their membership requirements does not suffice to meet the 
Petitioner's burden of proof. 
The Petitioner has not established that her memberships meet the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner initially stated that she meets the requirements of this criterion through the following 
contributions: 
• Development of the I training course; 
• Development of the 
• Provision of "services on gathering and analysis of . information for developing of 
multifunctional cosmetology equipment" on behalf ofl I and 
• A cooperation agreement betweenD and I I for "developing and 
implementing innovative protocols and standards in dermatocosmetology for the purpose of 
studying, teaching, advance[d] training and the exchange of scientific-research expertise." 
The Petitioner noted that she has registered copyrights for her weight loss programs. The registration of 
a copyright indicates originality, but does not establish major significance. A copyright protects 
intellectual property; it does not, however, demonstrate a work's major significance. Promotional 
materials for the Petitioner's business ventures do not establish the significance of those ventures. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of two cooperation agreements into which entered. In 1999 the 
company agreed to assist with the testing cosmetology equipment developed byl . In 
2000, andl I agreed to discuss "[j]oint research in the fields of mutual 
interest" and "to promote and contribute [to] direct cooperation." The Petitioner did not document the 
results of either of these agreements or establish their major significance in the field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that her "work is of major significance because 
obesity is ... a serious medical condition." At issue here is not whether obesity is a significant health 
risk, but rather whether the Petitioner's original contributions are, themselves, of major significance in 
treating obesity. The Petitioner has shown that she operates a weight loss center, but she has not 
established the major significance of her contributions. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded thatthePetitioner' s "evidence lacks specificity regarding how 
her achievements have affected the field or how the asserted achievements are being reproduced within 
the field," or "how others emulate her techniques or have widely applied herresults." 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her "health centers in Ukraine participated in the trials of the new 
equipment [ from I that is now commonly used byprofessionals." The Petitioner does not show 
that she participated in the design or development of the equipment. Her company was one of several 
companies that tested the equipment. She has not demonstrated that her company's testing of 
I Is equipment, in particular, was an original contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asse1is that she "published 48 articles in reputable professional publications." These 
articles are covered by a separate criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xvi), which the Director granted. 
However, to establish that those articles are also contributions of major significance, the Petitioner must 
submit evidence to that effect, which requires more than simply documenting their existence. She must 
show that the articles have had an impact throughout the field, which she has not done. 
The Petitioner has not established the major significance of her original contributions. For instance, she 
has not submitted studies showing that her methods represent a significant improvement over existing 
weight loss techniques, or documentation showing widespread adoption of her methods. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained national or international acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work on a scale that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20603827 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 11, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer systems analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and reconsider that decision, and affirmed the 
denial of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for various employers since 2005, as a network administrator working with 
a platform called SAP Basis. The Petitioner has worked in the United States since 2011, sometimes 
as an L-1 nonimmigrant intracompany transferee, sometimes as an H-1 B nonimmigrant worker in a 
specialty occupation. He has worked for various staffing services that provide technical services to 
client companies, includin!'J in California, and in 
Texas. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
Beyond the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Petitioner asserted that his experience and 
the complexity of his work are "comparable evidence of his extraordinary ability in the field." The 
regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )( 4) permits the submission of comparable evidence when the standard 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. The Petitioner 
did not claim or establish that those criteria do not readily apply to his occupation; as noted above, he 
claimed to satisfy seven of them. 
In a denial notice dated May 2021, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria, 
relating to authorship of scholarly articles and high remuneration. The Petitioner filed a timely motion 
to reopen and reconsider that decision, asserting that he had also established that he satisfied a third 
criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii), by performing in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. Specifically, the Petitioner asserted that the 
role of an SAP Basis administrator is inherently critical, and that he performed in that role for several 
distinguished clients. 
2 
In September 2021, the Director granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and affirmed the denial of 
the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not overcome the grounds for denial of the petition. On 
appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and two letters, one from an employer and the other from a 
university professor. 
In his statements on motion and, later, on appeal, the Petitioner addresses one of the regulatory criteria, 
pertaining to leading or critical roles. One of the letters submitted on appeal briefly addresses three 
other criteria, pertaining to prizes, participation as a judge, and original contributions. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's conclusions regarding authorship and 
remuneration. Below, we will address the criterion that the Petitioner actively discusses on appeal. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is, or was, a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we 
look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www. 
uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In his initial filing, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a leading and critical role as a Basis Lead for 
some of the world's most distinguished organizations since October 2005 ." The Petitioner listed and 
described his past projects for clients including PepsiCo, Hitachi USA, and Coca-Cola. The Petitioner 
does not claim to have been directly employed by any of those companies; rather, the companies were 
clients of his various employers. The Petitioner's work involves enterprise systems, which the Petitioner 
described as "large-scale application software packages that support business processes, information 
flows, reporting, and data analytics in complex organizations." 
An information technology (IT) manager at SAFRAN Electronics & Defense Avionics USA, LLC, stated 
that the Petitioner's role is critical because "SAP Basis is the glue that holds IT together," and "[n]o one 
knows systems better than SAP Basis administrators." Beyond these general statements about the 
importance of SAP Basis administrators, the IT manager provides technical details about the Petitioner's 
work on a five-month project for the company. For instance, he states that the Petitioner "performed 
System sizing, hardware specification for SAP ECC, SAP PI/PO and GRC systems." The official does 
not explain how these actions were critical to the company or a division or department thereof. 
The Petitioner's work for SAFRAN appears to amount to supporting tasks performed by a contractor, 
rather than the work integral to SAFRAN's own operations as an aerospace and defense company. The 
Petitioner was not doing the work of the company; rather, he helped to provide the tools for that work, 
for example working on projects in which clients migrated from one platform to another. The Petitioner's 
materials describe work for another client as a "printer replacement project." 
Another letter submitted with the petition reinforces this conclusion. An IT official at a local office of 
Change HealthCare, Inc., stated that the Petitioner "handled the SAP data center migrations" and "is 
3 
proficient in performance tuning of SAP applications." The record indicates that the Petitioner helped to 
facilitate the work of his employers' various clients, but he did not participate in the client companies' 
activities, and therefore he was not critical to those activities. 
In the May 2021 denial notice, the Director concluded that, while many companies rely on enterprise 
systems, it does not follow that ES administrators perform critical roles for those companies. 
On motion, the Petitioner provided further technical details and stated: "the Basis Administrator is 
perhaps the most important role within any organization running SAP .... An SAP Basis Administrator 
keeps the SAP environment running properly for a business. Therefore, for companies relying on SAP, 
the SAP Basis Administrator is an important position." The statement ends with a list of four online 
references, providing information about SAP Basis administrators. Because this general information 
applies to all SAP Basis administrators, the Petitioner essentially claims that any given SAP Basis 
administrator is, by definition, performing in a critical role.1 
The Director granted the motion, but affirmed the denial of the petition, stating: "All employees provide 
necessary or fundamental services for a company, but to hold that all roles are critical because there is a 
need for a service would make this criterion meaningless." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider evidence of the Petitioner's critical 
roles, but the Petitioner does not address the reasoning underlying the Director's conclusions. He 
maintains that he has performed in a critical role for clients such as PepsiCo, Hitachi USA, and Coca­
Cola, but he has not submitted first-hand evidence from those companies to establish that they consider 
his work to have been critical. Rather, he relies on the assertion that the role of any given SAP Basis 
administrator is inherently critical. The letters he has submitted from other employers and clients either 
rely on general assertions about SAP Basis administrators or else focus on specific details of the 
Petitioner's tasks and projects, without establishing that those tasks were of significant importance to the 
outcome of the activities of the organizations or divisions or departments thereof. 
The Petitioner submits two fmiher letters on appeal. One is attributed to the manager of RedRiver 
Systems, although parts of this letter are worded identically to passages on the websites identified in the 
Petitioner's motion. Other parts of the letter identify some of the Petitioner's projects and indicate that 
he "made significant contribution[s] to companies." The letter does not identify these companies. 
1 Visits to the identified websites show that the Petitioner appears to have copied and pasted language from those sites. For 
example, the cited website h tips:/ /www.gemini-us.com/blog/sap-basis-role-importance-in-an-enterprise includes the following 
passage: 
In simple words, SAP Basis administmtionis a critical pa1iofyour SAP landscape, which manages essential 
functions like the maintenance and monitoring uptime, evaluating upgrades, planning, user and system 
administration along with several other tasks. Without it, an enterprise would find it difficult to manage its 
SAP systems. 
The Petitioner's statement on motion includes this same passage, with the word "your" removed, leaving the phrase "... a 
critical part of SAP landscape." 
4 
The other letter, dated April 2020, is from a university professor, who asserts: "After having reviewed 
[the Petitioner's] professional experience and outstanding achievements within his field, I genuinely 
believe that he is a leading Software Specialist." The Petitioner had previously submitted this letter in 
support of an earlier petition he had filed on his own behalf. In a May 2020 denial notice, the Director 
explained why the letter was not persuasive evidence of eligibility. The Director noted, for example, that 
there was no indication that the professor was aware of the Petitioner's work before being asked to w1ite 
the letter; his comments were based on materials provided by the Petitioner. The Director also stated that 
individuals who did not work with the Petitioner are not in a position to provide details about the nature 
of the Petitioner's role with his employers and clients. Rather than contest that May 2020 denial with an 
appeal or motion, the Petitioner filed the present petition -his third -in September 2020. 
The Petitioner states that his satisfaction of two regulatory criteria, relating to articles and remuneration, 
"shows that he must perfmm in a leading or critical role for organizations having [a] distinguished 
reputation." The ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) are independent of one another; satisfying some of 
the criteria does not imply or create the presumption that an individual has satisfied other criteria as well 
The petitioner has submitted some information indicating that an SAP Basis administrator's role is critical 
within the limited context of SAP systems management, but the Petitioner has not shown that this work 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the activities of a given organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner's appellate brief does not address any of the other eligibility criteria that the Petitioner had 
previously claimed at the time he filed the petition. Because the university professor's April 2020 letter, 
submitted on appeal, addresses someofthose other criteria, we brieflynote the Petitioner's original claims 
below, as they relate to the submitted letter. Any earlier claims not addressed in that letter, and thus not 
raised on appeal, are considered to be abandoned. 2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or intemationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In 2013, the Petitioner's then-employed I presented the Petitioner with a certificate "in 
recognition of outstanding commitment, [d]edication, and exemplary performance for [c]ontribution 
towards growth of the organization." The writer of the April2020 letter, whodoesnotclaimto have been 
an official or employee of I quotes the language from the certificate without further comment. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, does not contest or rebut the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
shown that the certificate is recognized nationally or internationally as a prize or award for excellence in 
the field of endeavor, and the record does not elaborate on the circumstances under which he received the 
certificate. It is evident that the certificate is available only tol I employees. An award limited 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
5 
to individuals at a single institution may have little national or international significance. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The writer of the April 2020 letter states that the Petitioner: 
participated in ________ SAP audit subsequent volume of technical and 
non-technical projects. He was frequ_ently involved in judging the work of others and 
holds authoritative responsibility in his field of work. He judged, reviewed, and approved 
[several listed] technical materials .... 
He has also been part of the project technical assessment panel in the United States and 
contributed tremendously to SAP BASIS andNetWeaver competency. 
The writer claims no personal knowledge of the Petitioner's judging activity, and he does not identify any 
source for the information he claims in his letter. In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had documented his job responsibilities, but had not shown that those responsibilities involved 
judging the work of others. The April 2020 letter submitted on appeal predates, and therefore does not 
address or respond to, the Director's May 2021 denial notice. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholar01, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
With respect to this criterion, the April 2020 letter incorporates quotations from earlier letters, provided 
by other individuals. The Director addressed those letters in the May 2020 notice denying the earlier 
petition, concluding that the letters described the tasks the Petitioner carried out in the routine performance 
of his job duties, but did not establish the major significance of those tasks. The repetition of information 
from those letters does not rebut the Director's conclusions. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
6 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has had a 
long and successful career, including projects for high-profile clients, but the record does not establish 
that this success has risen to the level of sustained acclaim, through which the Petitioner is recognized 
not only by his employers and clients, but throughout his field at a national or international level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19917541 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an attorney, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that, as an attorney practicing law in the specialization of international litigation and 
arbitration, the Petitioner was eligible for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will vacate the Director's decision 
and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an attorney specializing in international dispute resolution. He holds four master of 
laws degrees, and is licensed to practice law in China and the states of California and 
New York. He states that he has already opened a partnership in the United States to practice law in 
this area, and will continue to do so while also pursuing opportunities as a lecturer and scholar. 
Although the Petitioner claimed to meet six of the ten evidentiary criteria, the Director did not address 
the evidence presented under these criteria in either his notice of intent to deny (NOID) or decision. 
He instead focused on the listing of attorney as a profession under section 101(a)(32) of the Act, 
concluding that because members of the professions are specifically listed as eligible for classification 
under the second and third preference categories for employment-based immigrants but not under 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i), they are not eligible for classification as aliens of extraordinary ability unless 
their occupation falls within the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics. The Director found 
that the Petitioner's "occupation and field" did not "fall within the purview" of any of those areas of 
expertise. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially asserts that the Director ignored his statement, submitted for the first 
time in response to the NOID, that in addition to practicing law he planned to "continue to work as a 
lecturer and scholar in the U.S., focusing on teaching students and legal professionals in the field of 
international dispute resolution." While we agree that the Director did not evaluate this evidence in 
his decision, we note that although the Petitioner submitted evidenceofhavingauthoreda professional 
guide to arbitration and contributing to professional book chapters in China, he does not indicate, and 
the evidence does not show, that he has ever worked as a lecturer, professor, or professional trainer, 
or otherwise acted as an educator as he now proposes to do. Since the Petitioner has not claimed or 
1 While the Director did not include in his decision a citation to the 1995 opinion of the General Counsel of the legacy 
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in this matter, we note thatthe decision essentially adopts the reasoning of 
that opinion. Gen Co Op. No. 95-3 (INS), 1995 WL 1796310. General Counsel opinions are advisory in nature and are 
thereforenotbinding.R.L.Jnv. Ltd. Partnersv. INS, 86 F.Supp. 2d 1014, 1022(0.Haw. 2000). Aff'd273 F.3d 874 (9th 
Cir. 2001). 
2 
submitted any evidence to support his extraordinary ability in the field of education, we need not 
considerwhether his plan to pursue emp loymentas an adjunct professor and participate in professional 
associations in the United States meets the requirement at section 203(b )(l)(ii) of the Act. 
However, upon de novo review we find that the record includes evidence which demonstrates that the 
Petitioner's practice of international dispute resolution and arbitration law places his area of expertise 
within the field of business. He indicates that he participated in the drafting of an arbitration guide for 
handling international disputes for Chinese attorneys, was appointed as an arbitrator by the China 
International Economic and Trade Arbitration Committee (CIETAC), and has authored articles on 
subjects including comparative arbitration systems and international investment published in 
professional legal journals. The evidence shows that these activities have a direct impact upon the 
strategies and operations of businesses participating in international trade, investment, and 
commerce. 2 Therefore, on remand the Director should evaluate the evidence in the record to determine 
whether it establishes that the Petitioner, as an attorney in the fie Id of business, meets three of the 
evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If the Director determines that it does, he should 
then consider whether the totality of the evidence shows that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim the field of international dispute resolution, and that the Petitioner is one of the 
very small percentage at the top of this field. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 For example, a statement from the ______________________ cites the 
growth of international investment as the impetus for the promulgation of the new arbitration rules that the Petitioner 
helped to draft. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20434723 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 20, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a composer I, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner studied at I College of Music and I I College I Since 2014 he 
ked for I, a company owned by composer 
Many of the Petitioner's documented projects in the record have heen as an assistant t 
Some of their projects are the I _____ an 
1 His most recent work includes composing the score for the feature film 
and the television series! I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (viii), Comparable evidence of a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to published material and 
participation as a judge. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv) by serving as a judge at film festivals in Turkey. For the reasons explained 
below, we do not conclude that he has satisfied the other three claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 The Petitioner is currently in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status, which relates to extraordinary ability. 
Nevertheless, the record ofproceedingforthe approved nonimmigrant petitions are not before us. Also, the nonimmigrant 
and irn migrant categories have different definitions and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the 
field ofarts" in the nonirnmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R § 214.2(0 )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, 
"extraordinary ability" reflects thatthe individual is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field. 
2 
Review of the record does not support the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had satisfied the 
requirements of this criterion. 
A number of the submitted articles are not about the Petitioner. Rather, they are about projects on which 
he worked. "The person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field" 
may also satisfy the criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. In this instance, the submitted articles mention the Petitioner only briefly, and do not 
include substantial discussion of his work. 
Other submitted articles are about the Petitioner, but the Petitioner has not established that the articles 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications. The submitted 
evidence should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other 
statistics and show who the intended audience is. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asse1is that each article includes "the applicable circulations [sic] figures for print 
publications andnumberof unique visitor[ s] for all online publications," butthe Petitioner did not provide 
this information for every submitted article. Where the Petitioner did provide the information, it is 
incorporated into transcripts or translations, without attribution of the source of the data. Also, these raw 
numbers do not establish that the circulation or readership is high compared to other publications in the 
field, as required. 
The Petitioner also quotes what appear to be various publishers' own promotional material, such as a 
reference to Film.Music.Media as "your premiere destination when it comes to the world of film music." 
A publisher's "self-serving assertion" about its own publication is not sufficient to establish that the 
publication meets the requirements of8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 
SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) 
("The AAO need not, and indeed should not, rely on the [publisher's] self-serving assertion ... to find 
that [the] magazine is a professional or major trade publication"). 
The Petitioner has been the subject of published material, but he has not established that the submitted 
materials meet the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims that this criterion is not readily applicable to his occupation, because musical 
"performances are always considered a critical role for productions or events rather than organizations 
and establishments." The Petitioner therefore asserts that evidence about individual "productions or 
events" is comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner submits letters fron-c=] I land others, asserting that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role by contributing to 
the soundtrack scores for various! I The Petitioner appears to seek to extend the comparable evidence principle bythenassertingthatthe studios that produced or distributed thesel I 
are establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the criterion does not 
readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had made 
valued contributions to various projects, but had not shown his work to be leading or critical for any 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats prior 
assertions and states that the Director erred by not considering the Petitioner's claim of comparable 
evidence. 
Upon consideration of the record, we need not directly resolve the issue of comparnble evidence, because 
the Petitioner has not shown his roles to be leading or critical in the alternative context of individual 
soundtrack projects. 
Letters from I and others establish that the Petitioner has worked primarily as an assistant to I I providing additional music to projects for which I is the credited composer. The 
record shows that most of the Petitioner's film work has been in lesser capacities, belowthatof composer, 
such as the following examples listed on a printout fromIMDb Pro: 
• Soundtrack Producer (uncredited) 
• Score Production Assistant 
• Additional Orchestrator (uncredited) 
• Composer (additional music) 
• Composer (trailer music) 
• Score Production Coordinator 
• Conductor 
• Orchestrator 
• Arranger 
On the IMDb Pro printout, all nine of the projects that credit the Petitioner as the primary composer are 
short films. Theprintoutdoesnotprovide box office figures foranyofthese short films, and the Petitioner 
has not otherwise established that these projects have distinguished reputations. 
notes that the soundtracks for I were nominated for Grammy Awards. The 
Petitioner does not submit any evidence from the Recording Academy to show that the Academy 
nominated the Petitioner, not just I I for these awards. 
The Petitioner has also claimed a leading role as a producer of motion picture soundtrack albums. The 
field of record production is related to, but distinct from, musical composition. The Petitioner has not 
established that production work of this kind demonstrates extraordinary ability as a composer. 
The Petitioner has not established that his subordinate, supporting, and sometimes uncredited work rises 
to the level of being comparable to a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner claims a lead composer credit for projects in thel l but does not establish 
that these projects had even been released at the time he filed the petition. Whatever the prior success or 
reception of earlier l an individual film or television pro gram's reputation and whether it is 
4 
distinguished, cannot be determined before its release. A petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R § 103.2(b)(l). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has earned a salary and bonuses from and composing royalties froni I I In 2021, his base salary at was $220,000 per year. In a February 2021 letter, 
agreed to pay the Beneficiary a $400,000 advance on royalties anticipated through March 2026. 
Documentation in the record indicates that the Petitioner received payment in the following amounts: 
I I 
2014 $15,006 (October- December) 
2015 47,504 
2016 67,860 
2017 96,156 
2018 133,324 $25,088 
2019 104,191 38,468 
2020 82,269 67,842 
2021 125,294 (January-July) 
The Petitioner did not establish the amount of royalties already paid to him under the terms of the 2021 
agreement with I land the Petitioner did not provide any basis for comparison to show that his 
remuneration in the form of royalty payments are significantly high in relation to others in his field. 
The letter from describes the Petitioner as a "composer, orchestrator and arranger," but the record 
indicates that the Petitioner has also acted as a producer at recording sessions. The record does not 
distinguish between the Petitioner's earnings as a composer and as a producer. Although there is some 
overlap, the two occupations are distinct. Remuneration paid to the Petitioner for his work as a producer, 
such as session fees, would not represent remuneration for work in the field of composition. 
To indicate that his salary from has been high in relation to others in the field, the Petitioner has 
submitted statistics from various online sources, including examples described further below. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the submitted salary information was too broad to 
provide reliable information specific to the Beneficiary's intended employment. The Director stated: 
"Average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that theDirectorselectivelyintetpreted the submitted evidence, and "only 
considered the average salaries and not the comparable salaries at low, medium as well as high levels for 
comparison purposes." But it is not apparent that the Petitioner submitted an adequate basis for 
comparison with respect to composers in the motion picture industry. The figures submitted by the 
Petitioner are not consistent from one source to the next: 
5 
• 0 * NET Online indicates that "Music Directors and Composers" in California earn an average of 
$57,050 per year, and 10% of them earn $139,620 or more; 
• Payscale indicates that the median base salary for composers in the United States is $51,000 per 
year, and 10% earn$122,000 ormore; 
• ZipRecruiterindicates that film composers in I California, earn an average of $58,536 
per year, and 10% of film composers throughout the United States earn $104,000 or more; and 
• Recruiter shows an average income of $71,190 for "Music Composers and Arrangers" in 
California. 
Most of the sources do not distinguish between film score composers and other types of composers and 
songwriters, and it is not evident that the private recruitment and job search websites drew on a large, 
representative data pool. The Payscale figures are "[b]]ased on 50 salary profiles." Recruiter indicates 
that Nevada is the highest-paying state for composers, at $99,210 per year. Only Zip Recruiter provides 
figures specific to film composers, and that website indicates that three of the ten highest-paying cities for 
film composers are in Massachusetts, a state not among the 14 states listed by Recruiter as the highest­
paying. The inconsistent information provided does not appear to be sufficient to show that the 
Beneficiary earns a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to composers in the 
motion picture industry. 
ect we note that the Petitioner has done most of his work for a company owned by fellow film 
composer I I has provided statements in support of the petition, butthe record does 
not sho compensation, which might have provided a useful benchmark. 
The Petitioner asse1is that the Director "erroneously claimed that no corroborating evidence was 
submitted by unilaterally claiming it to be a temporal element to the criteria for high salary which is in 
direct conflict to the plain language of the statute." While the Petitioner does not elaborate, the Petitioner 
appears to refer to this passage from the Director's decision: 
The evidence appears to show that the beneficiary's earnings may be higher than average 
compared with data from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics and O-Net online. However, 
corroborative evidence showing that the wage rate is high relative to others working in 
the field was not provided. In addition an accountant indicated that the beneficiary has 
been employed with since on sic October 4, 2014. 
However, evidence of earnings from ____________ prior to 2021 
was not provided. 
This passage is not a ground for denial of the petition. Rather, it is a quotation from the RFE, which the 
Director repeated as part of the chronological narrative of the record. The accountant's initial letter 
attested to the Petitioner's employment from 2014 to 2021, but did not specify how much he earned 
during that time. The Director went on to acknowledge the Petitioner's later submission of a new letter 
from the same accountant, specifying what paid the Beneficiary each year. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. Because royalties are not a salary, we would 
not compare royalty figures to salary figures. As noted above, the Petitioner did not provide any basis 
6 
for comparison to show that his remuneration in the form of royalty payments are significantly high in 
relation to others in his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l)(A) of the Actand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has worked on some high-profile projects for major film studios, in positions of 
increasing responsibility, under the tutelage of I I In this way he may be said to be 
progressing toward the top of his field. Butemploymentwith major studios is not inherently sufficient 
evidence that one has reached the top of that field; a comparison of the Petitioner's credits and 
achievements with those of an Academy Award nominee, shows that while the Petitioner 
is rising in his field, he has not yet established the sustained national or international acclaim required 
to show that he has reached the top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21166441 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 27, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hair stylist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets 
four criteria in addition to the two criteria that the Director concluded she met. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a hair stylist who opened her own studio in 2005. The evidence shows that she has 
received several awards in national stylist competitions, and has styled the hair of several celebrities 
in her nativel I She states that upon relocating to the United States she plans to open a new 
salon inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorfoundthatthePetitionermettwo of the evidentiarycriteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published materials about her and her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four 
additional criteria. Afterreviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she has met the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification by meeting three criteria, and will therefore remand the 
matter to the Director to conduct a final merits analysis. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several interviews and articles about her and her work as a stylist which were 
mainly published on the websites ofl lnews media. In addition, the record includes evidence 
which demonstrates that some of those websites are comparatively highly visited to the extent that 
they may be considered to be major media. We therefore agree with the Director that this criterion 
has been met. 
2 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record shows that the Petitioner served as a judge for the _____ Championship in 
Hairdressing, Decorative Cosmetics and Nail Art in 2009. As such, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that this evidence establishes that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that their work in the field was displayed at an 
exhibition or showcase, and that the exhibition or showcase was artistic in nature. The Director noted 
three general categories of evidence submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion: photos 
from fashion shows, credits from video productions, and articles about competitions. While he did 
not dispute that the Petitioner's work was displayed in music videos, fashion shows, and beauty 
competitions, he concluded that the evidence did not establish that any of these were artistic 
exhibitions or showcases versus events conducted for marketing or competitive purposes. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on several competitions and fashion shows in which hairstyles she 
created were displayed, and refers to previously submitted evidence which include photographs taken 
at two competitions in which she competed in 2006 and 2009. Those photographs show that as part 
of the competitions, models displayed the hairstyles, makeup and fingernails created by the stylist 
competitors in a runway show attended by spectators. While the overall exhibitions within which the 
competitions take place have a commercial component, the evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
competitions were primarily exhibitions of the artistic skills of the competing stylists. Accordingly, 
we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion and conclude that the evidence shows that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets at least one criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) in 
addition to the two which the Director determined that she met, she has met the initial evidence 
requirement for the requested classification. We therefore need not consider whether she also meets 
additional criteria. Rather, the totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the 
Director in his decision or herein, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether 
it shows that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in the field of hair sty ling 
and is one of the small percentage of stylists at the top of that field. As the Director's decision did not 
include a final merits determination, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the 
record and determine whether the Petitioner has established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
3 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20755433 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY Y 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director indicated that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, we agree with the Petitioner that his membership with thel !Olympic team that 
competed in Beijing in 2008 is sufficient to satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 Accordingly, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he has satisfied at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria. We will therefore review the totality of the evidence in the context 
of the final merits determination below.2 
1 An individual's membership on an Olympic team will not necessarily or automatically satisfy the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Here, however, the Petitioner demonstrated that his membership on I 2008 01 m ic 
team re uired hi to attain outstanding achievements as determined and judged by experts at the 
and the . A letter from head coach of 
the ____ that qualifiers for the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics were selected based 
on their competition results at the 2007 World I Championships inl I 
2 Meeting the minimum requirement of providing required initial evidence does not, in itself, establish that the person in 
fact meets the requirements for extraordinary ability classification. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 3 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was working as al I coach for I I inL I California. 5 The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting successes in 
national and international amateur! !competitions, such as four first place victories at the 
Championships (2007, 2009, 2010, and 2013).6 In addition, he 
documented his membership with the 2008 I Olympic team. Moreover, the Petitioner 
provided evidence showing media coverage of his amateu accomplishments from 2006 until 
March 2017. The record, however, falls short of showing that his achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his amateur 
achievements and coaching work have garnered him sustained national or international acclaim and 
that they reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723 at 59. In this case, the Petitioner has not established that he has received any amateur or 
professional awards since winning a silver medal at the I I Cup 2017"1 I 
tournament in Germany in 201 7. Further, despite the Petitioner having signed a 
professional agreement in California in 2019, he has not shown that he has competed against 
top since that time, let alone won any medals or awards, reflecting that he "is one of 
that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."7 See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A) (stating that "such acclaim must be maintained" and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
4 In the second step of the analysis, the officer should evaluate the evidence together and consider the petition in its entirety 
to make a final merits determination of whether or not the petitioner has demonstrated that the person has sustained national 
or international acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the 
person is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. The officer applies a 
preponderance of the evidence standard when making this determination. See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B). 
5 Part 3 of the Form T-140 indicates that the Petitioner's "Date of Last Arrival" in the United States was Julv 17 2019. 
6 Additionally, the Petitioner presented documentation indicating that he placed first at the 20081 
Championships in En land, an amateur! I event hosted by the 
and third at the 2010 Championships in Russia. He also placed first at the International 
Tournament (2010), first at the "World Cu of 1(2005), third at the I ]Championship, and third at the Championship (2003). 
7 While this 2019 contract grants the promoter "the exclusive right to promote future as a professional 
' there is no indication that the Petitioner has continued to compete successfully against renowned or accomplished 
after coming to the United States. 
3 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of"extraordinary ability." 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner demonstrated a 
successful amateur career in until around 201 7, he has not shown that he has 
maintained his acclaim as a _ since that time by winning awards at nationally or internationally 
recognized competitions, demonstrating "sustained" national or international acclaim and 
achievements that have been recognized in the field. 8 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, although the Petitioner indicated that he intended "to continue 
working as a professional! I and coach in the United States, he has not shown that he has 
maintained his acclaim in his sport by successfully competing or coaching at top amateur or 
professional! I events after his arrival in this country in July 2019. Nor has the Petitioner shown 
that he has received any awards as a lcoach inl lor United States. 
Again, the Petitioner demonstrated that he was a member ofthel I Olympic team for the 2008 
Olympic Games in Beijing. However, the Petitioner did not show that this single team membership 
more than a decade ago resulted in "sustained" national or international acclaim. Furthermore, he did 
not establish that he qualified for the 2012, 2016, or 2020 Olympic Games, reflecting continued, 
sustained national or international acclaim in his sport. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. 204.5 h 3 . Moreover, while the record includes a letter from the president of the 
stating that the P.....,e Petitioner has been a member of both thel I 
and the ___________ Team since 2006, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has competed as member of these organizations after 2017. Nor has the Petitioner 
demonstrated his membership in any coaching associations that require outstanding achievements or 
that otherwise demonstrate his national or international acclaim as a coach. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he has maintained or sustained his national or international acclaim as al lor a 
coach. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material about him, the Petitioner offered articles from 
I I l 11 11 and dated 
2008 until March 2017. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate any media coverage about him 
relating to his work as al I or coach after March 201 7. The absence of such media 
coverage since that time is not consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary 
for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his overall press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting reflects a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard . . . to present more extensive 
documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility as an 
8 The record includes a letter of support from _____ a professional discussing his familiarity with 
events in the Petitioner's amateur career from 2005 until 2010, but his letter does not mention the Petitioner's 
activity as I in the decade after that period. While the Petitioner presented ratings from I for listing his current professional ranking among O the record 
does not include any similar ranking information for the Petitioner identifying him as a top amateur or professionac==J 
over the last several years. 
4 
individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the 
evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner asserts that he erformed in a leadin or critical role for the I 
I I and the in __ 
Regarding his role for these two organizations as an amateur the Petitioner has not shown that 
he has competed on their behalf since March 2017. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
has maintained or sustained his national or international acclaim by continuing to perform in a leading 
or critical role as a for the aforementioned organizations after March 2017. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
With respect to the Petitioner's work as al I coach at l the Petitioner provided a letter from I lthe organization's first deputy, stating that the Petitioner coached there "from 2016 -
2019." I I indicated that the Petitioner "coached and mentored both teenager and adult 
champions and awardees of the _______ further stated: 
The roof of this is who became the champion of 
of the in 2017 and 2018 won the silver medal of 
of the in 2019 and I 
who won the silver medal at _________ of the I 
in 2018 and the silver medal at International Championship held in l Russia 
in 2018. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that he served as the aforementioned I primary 
coach or that their competitive success was mainly attributable to him. Nor has the Petitioner shown that 
his role as a coach fo was leading or critical. For example, while the Petitioner was involved 
in training these tw the evidence does not show that the Petitioner's coaching role contributed 
in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of I I activities. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that his role as a coach at lwas reflective of, or resulted in, 
widespread acclaim from his field or that his level of coaching expertise placed him at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Besides reference letters and some competitive 
results for ______ and ______ the Petitioner did not offer evidence 
establishing that he garnered extensive acclaim or recognition from the field for his coaching role. In 
addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has served in a leading or critical coaching role 
for a distinguished organization since his July 2019 arrival in the United States, or that he has otherwise 
sustained acclaim in the field of coaching at the national or international level since that time. 9 The 
Petitioner has not established that any of his past or present coaching roles are indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner enjoyed success as 
9 For example, the Petitioner has not shown that he has coached top amateur or professionall I at 
(his current U.S. employer) in a way that is indicative of a leading or critical role for the company. 
5 
an amateur0from 2003 until March 2017, he has not demonstrated that he has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim as an amateur or professional! after that period in either I I 
or the United States. Nor does the evidence show that the Petitioner's coaching achievements have 
been recognized in the field or that he has sustained national acclaim as a coach inl lor the 
United States. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Price, 20 r&N Dec. at 954 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.e. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.e. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
( stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one 
of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude users from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form r-140 immigrant petitions are denied after users approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.e. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.e. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the users service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
10 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21035380 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al I instruction school, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a chief _ 
instructor and president, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Beneficiary 's Field of Expertise 
In Part 6 of the petition, the Petitioner listed the Beneficiary 's job title for the proposed employment 
as president , chief I I instructor. In addition, the petitioner indicated the beneficiary 's job 
description as chief I I instructor, safety coordinator ,I I lesson designer, and marketing 
supervisor. In the supporting cover letter, Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "intends to continue 
using his skills as al Ito instruct newl I that aspire to becomel I 
themselves." On appeal, the Petitioner argues: 
[T]he Service ... failed to understand how Beneficiary's career as a is 
related to his position as President [for the Petitioner]. ... [The Petitioner's] ability to 
offer the curriculum is dependent upon having Beneficiary's design, manage and teach 
the programs . The President , Chief Instructor is a position that must be 
occupied by a person with experience during at the highest levels, here [the 
Beneficiary] had reached the pinnacle of I and now incorporates 
these talents. Therefore , Beneficiary's career as al I is essential to prove that he is 
part of a small percentage ofl !nationals that have reached the pinnacle of 
I I 
Beneficiary has competed as a in many championships around the world. 
It is the experience gained throughout his career as a that established the 
foundation to become an extraordinary instructor .... 
. . . It is argued that the Service failed again to recognize how Beneficiary's I 40 plusl 
year career as al I is related to his position as President, Chief 
Instructor. Beneficiary's position exists as a continuation of his career in 
from to the pinnacle, I I Beneficiary 's 
extraordinary ability as lis not only commendable to his but a 
necessary legacy to be offered employment as President [for the Petitioner) .... 
2 
As indicated above, the Beneficiary intends to work in the United States as president of a __ I I instruction school and chiefl I instructor. The Beneficiary does not intend to 
compete I I The statute and regulations require a beneficiary's national or international 
acclaim to be sustained and that he or she seeks to continue work in the area of expertise in the United 
States. See sections 203(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1153(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii), and 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3) and (5). While a I I instructor and a I I share 
knowledge of the sport, the two rely on very different sets of basic skills. Thus, I I 
instructionl !management and competitive are not the same area of expertise. This 
interpretation has been upheld in federal court. In Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002), 
the court stated: 
It is reasonable to interpret continuing to work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" 
as working in the same profession in which one has extraordinary ability, not 
necessarily in any profession in that field. For example, Lee's extraordinary ability as 
a baseball player does not imply that he also has extraordinary ability in all positions 
or professions in the baseball industry such as a manager, umpire or coach. 
Id. at 918. The court noted a consistent history in this area; see also Mussarova v. Garland, 562 
F.Supp.3d 837 (C.D. Ca. 2022) (determining that the plaintiff's awards as a water polo player were 
not awarded as a water polo coach); Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 
131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Oh. 2015) (concluding that the AAO's reasoning, relevant statutory and 
regulatory language, and case law was not arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with 
the law in finding that an Olympic gold medal gymnast must meet the extraordinary ability 
classification through her achievements as a coach, her intended area of expertise). 
While we acknowledge the possibility of a beneficiary's extraordinary claim in more than one field, 
such as I I and I I instruction, a petitioner, however, must demonstrate "by clear 
evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise." See 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 1 In this case, based on the record before us, the Beneficiary 
intends to continue to work in the area ofl school management andl I instruction rather than 
competing as I Thus, the Petitioner must satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
through the Beneficiary's achievements as al lschool manager andl I instructor. 
1 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual provides: 
[T]n general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has 
sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality 
of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such that USCTS 
can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
Because the record reflects that the Beneficiary has not competed as a I in over 15 years and has not achieved 
any recent national or international acclaim as we need not consider whether the Beneficiary's competitive 
achievements have an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability within his area of expertise in 
school management and instruction. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined 
that the Beneficiary fulfilled only one criterion -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for three additional criteria. After reviewing the 
record, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that a beneficiary received prizes or 
awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Beneficia "won 1st place in the 1982 
Series championship," "won the cham ionship in 1993," "has received 
dozens of trophies for professional championships and events in his decades of active 
competition," and his "last major award before retiring in 2001 was 1st place as al in the 
I IPanamericana championship." For the reasons discussed above, these awards relate to the 
Beneficiary's prior career as a I and will not be considered in his area of expertise as a 
I !school manager and instructor. See Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 914; Integrity Gymnastics & 
Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC, 131 F.Supp. 3d at 721; Mussarova, 562 F.Supp. 3d at 837. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on his induction into 
the I. The Petitioner submitted a letter froml I stating 
that the Beneficiary was inducted "for [his] accomplishments and contributions to I I 
I I in regional, national and international competition and as a builder to promote I I" Further, the Petitioner provided screenshots from website regarding the 
nominating process and a reference letter from praising the Beneficiar in the 
The evidence, however, does not indicate that his induction into was 
based on the recognition of his achievements as a I school manager orl instructor 
does not further elaborate and explain that the Beneficiary received his induction into 
on his achievements and recognition inl I school management or _ instruction. 
Indeed,I references the Beneficiary's career in "regional, national and international competition 
and as a builder" as determining factors for his induction. 
Without evidence showing that he received nationally or internatiol ally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in his field of I school management or instruction, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sou ht. 3 On a eal, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's 
membership with the meets this criterion. The Petitioner 
references a letter from who confirmed the Beneficiary's membership and 
stated that "a ___ must have successfully competed in major professional events and have a 
demonstratable record of excellence." In addition, the Petitioner submitted! I bylaws reflecting 
that regular membership requires I who have participated successfully in major 
professional events, i.e.l lwho were major series champions and/or majorl I or 
championship winners in widely-recognized lesser series; at a minimum, must have a demonstrable 
record of excellence, such as recurring podium finishes." Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the Beneficiary fulfilled this criterion based on his membership withl I through I 
school management orl I instruction rather than as a competitive! I See Lee, 23 7 F. 
Supp. 2d at 914; Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC, 131 F.Supp. 3d at 721; 
Mussarova, 562 F. Supp. 33d at 837. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's 
membership with meets this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on membership 
withl land references a letter from I who stated that 
"[t ]he largest sanctioning body in the USA founded in 1944 -has certified [ the Petitioner] 
as an approved, accredited training provider in accordance with its rules and regulations." The letter, 
however, does not reflect that the Beneficiary is a member of I I rather, the letter cites to the 
Petitioner's membership. Moreover, the letter does not indicate the membership requirements for I I nor does it show that outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts, are required for membership. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary is a member of and that membership meets the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills the criterion. 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude users from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many F orrn 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after users approves prior 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a foreign associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
nonimmigrant pet1t10ns. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d at 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. Although the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for an additional criterion on appeal regarding published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we 
need not address this ground because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 5 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 918 (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball 
players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19905221 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neuroscientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a neuroscientist and is currently employed as a postdoctoral researcher at the 
University of I His research is focused on one of the aspects of I disease called University of 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria; namely, participation as a judge 
of the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); original contributions of major significance at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria, relating to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. The Petitioner's documented involvement in peer review 
for scientific journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied 
field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has written 
several scholarly articles in professional publications in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfied the original contributions criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation and evidence of 
his publication of various scholarly articles in the field of neuroscience. The Director concluded, 
however, that while the record reflects that the Petitioner has made research contributions in the field 
of neuroscience and the specialized field of _______________ disease, the 
evidence did not demonstrate that his research had a broader impact or influence, such that his 
contributions could be considered of major significance in the field. The Director emphasized that the 
letters were not supported by sufficient independent and objective evidence establishing the 
significance of the Petitioner's contributions. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred 
by improperly expanding the Petitioner's field of endeavor, and also asserted that he did not afford the 
expert opinion letters proper evidentiary weight. 
2 
In reviewing this criterion, we have considered the submitted letters, 1 published materials, and the 
Petitioner's peer review of articles in the field, as well as his statement in support of the petition. For 
the reasons discussed below, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's research contributions 
are of major significance in his field. 2 
In his statement, the Petitioner explained that he is a research scientist specializing in the field of 
neuroscience, and that he has been working in this area of science for over 12 years. He indicated that 
he has conducted his research at various institutions during the course of his career, including the 
University of1 in Germany, the University ofl I in Portugal, , the !University of in Brazil, and the University of lwhere he is currently performing post-doctoral 
research. 
Counsel for the Petitioner ex lained in a letter of support that the Petitioner has found and developed 
a new way to a henomenon in whichl I patients may exhibit 
sudden and temporary abilities, in in a I lmodel, thus making it 
possible to conduct in-depth studies of its mechanism. He further claimed that this work is 
groundbreaking and constitutes a significant scientific breakthrough that will pave the way for a better 
life for I I patients and their families, noting that of 28 articles written on this subject, the 
Petitioner had authored six of those articles. Counsel indicated that the Petitioner's contributions have 
made it possible to prove, isolate, and map out the precise mechanisms in the part of the brain involved 
in I 
The Petitioner's supporting evidence includes numerous letters of support from others in the field. A 
letter froml I Visiting Assistant Professor in the De artment of Educational Leadership for 
the School of Education at the Universit o states that the Petitioner's development 
of the I that replicates ______ seen in humans is the first of its kind and 
reveals brain mechanisms previously not known to be involved in the phenomenon. I I I Associate Professor and Head of the Physical Education Program at the 
University of states that the Petitioner's research on this matter, which was published in 
the journal Behavioral Brain Research, has received much attention from scientific experts and 
clinicians. He further noted that the Petitioner was invited to present his findings at numerous 
conferences hosted by the International Behavioral Neuroscience Society and the Society for 
Neuroscience notin that scientific accomplishments are a prerequisite to receiving such invitations. 
P Professor in the Department of Basic and Clinical Psychology 
and Psychobiology at the University _ (Spain), again references the Petitioner's replication of I I in a lmodel using stimulation, noting that this novel discovery 
1 While we may not discuss every letter and supporting document in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each 
one in evaluating whether the Petitioner established that he meets this criterion. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously considered the Petitioner's contributions to the field of 
neuroscience as a whole, rather than the subfield of study related t ______________ disease. 
However, we note that the decision discusses the lack of independent, objective evidence to demonstrate the nature of the 
Petitioner's contributions in both the broad field of neuroscience as well as the narrow subfield ot I disease as the basis for denial. Moreover, we exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, 
policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 l&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record 
anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. 
3 
"opens doors to several different techniques and approaches that can now be used to thoroughly 
understand the brain mechanism underlying! 
Professor of Experimental and Biology Psychology at the 
University in I Germany, states that the Petitioner has "made major contributions not only to 
the understanding of the I I but also to the development of 
a new method to investigate I He notes again that the Petitioner's model 
was the first of its kind and therefore substantiates his original contributions to the field. 
A letter from I Assistant Professor at University School of Medicine, School 
of Endocrinology and Metabolism, praises the Petitioner's academic and research achievements and 
notes that his work is internationally recognized and that he has received numerous grants and travel 
awards that permit him to disseminate his findings throughout the world. She concludes that she has 
no doubt that the Petitioner, "with all of his contributions and achievements, has ascended to the very 
top of his field of endeavor." Further, in an updated letter submitted in response to the Director's 
request for evidence, she emphasizes that the Petitioner was the first scientist to discover and prove 
the crucial role of thel I disease. 
These, as well as other reference letters and documents not specifically discussed here, sufficiently 
confirm that the Petitioner's research, specifically his development of the I model that replicates 
seen in humans, is original and unique. Notwithstanding this finding, however, 
the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his research constitutes "contributions of major 
significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
While the record includes some evidence that the Petitioner's research has been recognized in the field 
of neuroscience and subfield related tol I research, it is insufficient to confirm that his work 
has been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Indeed, some of the Petitioner's references 
indicate that his research findings might one day impact the field in a significant way. For example, 
a letter froml I Professor and Director of thel I in the 
Department of Psychological Sciences Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of I I states that "the results of his research are exceptional and have fundamentally changed 
our basic concepts of understanding how the brain processes I I and I I into 
motion and how we may treatl I disease." Althou h she states that the 
Petitioner's line of work "has already broadly impacted the understandin of and 
could lead to novel clinical approaches to treating disease, there is no 
indication that his findings have already resulted in such approaches or treatments. (Emphasis added). 
It appears Professor quates the Petitioner's discoveries that have the potential to be significant 
within the field with developments that have already impacted the field. Such a correlation is not 
appropriate as the regulation requires contributions that have already made a significant impact. 
Likewise, Professor! I states in his letter that the Petitioner's contributions "could provide 
novel I I approaches to treat Em hasis added). Moreover, Professor I I comments on the use of the Petitioner's model in the stud of other disorders 
in a clinical setting, specifically his investigation of whether I could ameliorate! I deficits induced by an 
4 
antipsychotic drug. She notes that millions of patients on antipsychotics "may benefit from these 
findings because they will aid the development of clinical therapies to treat several symptoms." 
(Emphasis added). These reference letters discuss the potential impact of the Petitioner's work. This 
criterion, however, requires evidence that his work has already made contributions of major 
significance in the field. Speculations of his work's potential impact, thus, are insufficient to satisfy 
this criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We note that many of the letters also discuss the published findings of the Petitioner, and reference 
various articles relating to his work. For example, Board of Trustees member and 
Distinguished Professor Head of I I in the University ofl I 
Department of Psychology, comments that the Petitioner has "published some outstanding papers" 
and that "the papers stemming from his Ph.D. work have contributed greatly to our understanding of 
th disease." The expert letters, however, do not 
describe the manner in which these articles are influential or heavily relied upon. Although some of 
the experts note that the Petitioner's articles are published in top publications, none of the experts 
indicate that he or she has cited to the Petitioner's work within their own published research. 
The Director noted that at the time of the decision, Google Scholar indicated that the Petitioner had 
garnered 27 citations, including self-citations, to four of his publications. While this moderate amount 
of citations demonstrates awareness of the Petitioner's work and its value, not every researcher who 
performs moderately valuable research has inherently made a contribution of major significance to the 
field as a whole. It remains the Petitioner's burden to document the actual impact of his articles. The 
Petitioner has not provided probative evidence to establish how those findings or citations of his work by 
others have significantly contributed to his field as required by this regulatory criterion. The Petitioner 
did not submit documentation of his citation history, nor did he submit any documentary evidence 
demonstrating that his articles have been unusually influential, such as articles that discuss in-depth 
the Petitioner's findings or credit the Petitioner with influencing or impacting the field. In this case, 
the Petitioner's documentary evidence is not reflective of having a significant impact in the field. The 
Petitioner has not established how those findings or citations of his work by others have demonstrated 
that his work has been seminal in, or has significantly contributed to, his field as a whole. 
We note the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the expert letters were not sufficiently considered by 
the Director. The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been 
considered above. However, for the reasons we have discussed, the letters and other evidence in the 
record fail to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" 
in the field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory 
opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we have in this case, 
evaluate the content of those letters as to whether they support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 
795-96. Thus, the content of the references' statements are important considerations 
Letters from experts in the field that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
5 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 Here, the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has 
had in the overall field. While the writers praise the Petitioner's research and applaud his breakthrough 
with regard to the development of the model that replicates I seen in humans, 
it is unclear whether this breakthrough finding has been developed and adopted by a large enough 
portion of the field to be considered a contribution of major significance in the field as a whole. As 
noted above, several of the experts comment on the potential for the Petitioner' I model to aid 
in the development of clinical therapies and approaches in treating! I disease and other 
neurologic disorders. If the breakthrough has the likely potential to impact the field at some future 
time, this is not sufficient to demonstrate eligibility under this criterion. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. at 135-136. 
The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of musical contributions of major significance. As such, he has not demonstrated that he meets 
this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a scientific researcher who has gained some recognition for his work. But 
he has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage 
of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above 
stated reasons. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19880517 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior research fellow in neurotoxicology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will remand the 
matter to the Director for further consideration and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitionerj a researcher in the field of neurotoxicology, received his doctorate degree in biomedical 
sciences from. !University in 2018. In addition, he was awarded a Doctor of Veterinary 
Medicine degree at I !Veterinary University in India in 2010 and is a board-licensed 
veterinarian in the United States. Since completing his Ph.D., the Petitioner has worked as a 
postdoctoral research associate atl !University and as a research fellow and senior research 
fellow atl !Department of I A letter from the I I indicates that his 
research projects at the time the etition was filed included development ofbiomarkers forl I 
disease and other diseases using an ultrasensitive real-time I I 
technology, and investigation of the molecular mechanisms of pathological 
genetic risk variants of disease. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of these criteria based on 
his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, his original research contributions, and 
his authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) 
and (vi). 
The Director denied the petition after determining that the Petitioner met only two of the three claimed 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The record indicates that the Petitioner has peer-reviewed 
manuscripts for several journals including Toxicological Sciences, Neurotoxicology, Prion, Journal of 
Cellular Physiology and The American Journal of Pathology, among others. This evidence satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires documentation of the individual's 
2 
participation as the judge of the work of others in his field. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that this criterion was met. 
In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Movement 
Disorders, Neuropharmacology, The American Journal of Pathology, Prion, and The Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, among others, and therefore has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has made original scientific contributions of major significance 
in his field and maintains that the Director erred in concluding that he did not also meet the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have 
they made original contributions but that such contributions have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for 
this criterion based on his published research, citation record, many detailed letters from experts in his 
field, evidence of government-provided research funding, and media reports about his published 
research, among other evidence. The Petitioner maintains that the Director did not appropriately weigh 
all the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
A letter from a professor of neurology at University of 
Diseases, explains that the Petitioner is recognized for successfully modifying the __ assay for "an increasing array of applications, which has in tum led to more and more 
incorporation of this assay into other researchers' work, including in otherl I fields." I I provides several concrete examples of how she and other scientists have relied on and 
recognized the significance of the Petitioner's work. 
For instance, I emphasizes that the Beneficiary's work onl I disease detection was 
highlighted in a 2020 Neurology I noting that the I I authors acknowledged his 
"contributions to thel I an international task force working 
to standardize and reproduce methods for neurotoxicolo y research." The referenced I I 
described the Petitioner's enhancement of the assa as "a major com onent of this 
international effort " as it ' 
In a letter submitted in support of the petition, 
Head of the School of Environment and Science at !university (Australia), 
explains how the Petitioner's study published in th 2020 issue of Movement Disorders and 
featured! "established the 
disease from control samples at early stages of the disease - a very significant outcome." These and 
other letters in the record contain probative details regarding not only the novelty and utility of the 
Petitioner's research, but also specific examples of how it has significantly influenced further 
academic research and clinical investigation of early diagnostic methods for neurological disorders 
and prion diseases in both animals and humans. 
The record further demonstrates that the Petitioner's 2020 Movement Disorders article 
attracted the attention of scientific and mainstream media publications (including 
3 
ScienceDaily, MedScape, Yahoo and MSN) which highlighted both the study's finding that a simple 
skin test can detect biomarkers for I disease, and the implications of this method for early 
detection and treatment of the disease. 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including evidence 
not discussed here, we conclude that the Petitioner has provided sufficient detail to establish the nature 
and significance of his original contributions to his field, and met his burden to demonstrate that he 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi), 
he has met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Accordingly, the totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the Director in his 
decision or herein, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether it shows that the 
Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in his field and is one of the small percentage 
of scientists at the top of his field. As the Director's decision did not include a final merits 
determination or any assessment of whether the evidence submitted establishes the Petitioner's 
sustained acclaim, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the record and determine 
whether the Petitioner has established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20605387 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actress who works in the Chinese film and television industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four of these criteria, and the Director 
concluded that she submitted evidence to satisfy three of them. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to lesser nationally recognized awards, published materials 
in major media, and commercial success. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (x). We will not 
disturb the Director's determinations with respect to these criteria. 
After determining that the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. Based on an evaluation of the totality of the evidence, the Director 
concluded that the record did not show the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and 
did not demonstrate that she is at the very top of her field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in conducting a multi-part analysis and final 
merits determination and cites to Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). The Petitioner further 
asserts that the Director's decision is contrary to the plain language of the regulatory language, arguing 
that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires only that she provide evidence of a qualifying 
major, internationally recognized award or evidence that satisfies at least three of the ten alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She further contends that since she has met the minimum 
required evidentiary criteria, the petition should be approved. 
The Petitioner further claims that the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian supports her position. 
Specifically, she maintains that, according to Kazarian, if an applicant has satisfied at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), "he should win" and if "he has met 2 or less, 
he should lose." In addition, she states that "[n ]owhere in Kazarian v. USCIS does 9th Circuit rule 
2 
that meeting 3 types of evidence does not qualify for extraordinary abilities." The Petitioner is 
mistaken in her reading of Kazarian, which does in fact set forth the multi-part analysis referenced 
above, in which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first meets the initial evidence 
requirements of a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at least three of the ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Kazarian decision does not state that meeting three of these 
criteria establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, Kazarian discusses a two-part review 
where the evidence is first counted and then, if the initial evidence requirements are fulfilled, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination to determine whether a given petitioner is one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor consistent with the 
statute and regulations for this restrictive classification. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director erred in 
proceeding to a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). In this matter, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this very high standard. On appeal, the Petitioner has 
not addressed the Director's decision beyond objecting to its inclusion of a multi-part analysis and 
final merits determination. Upon our de novo review of the record, and for the reasons discussed 
below, we have reached the same conclusion as the Director. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has maintained a professional acting career in China's television 
and film industries. As mentioned above, the Petitioner has won awards for acting, been featured in 
media publications in China, and has experienced some commercial success. The record, however, 
does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. See id. 
The Petitioner has established that she has received five acting awards from national performing arts 
entities in China. In 2010, she received the Television Drama Actress award 
at thee=J China Television! I Awards, as well as the ___ TV Actress award at 
the China TV Art Festival, which the Petitioner claimed "is the highest award for a 
television drama performing actress in China." The record reflects that the events received major 
media recognition in Beijing Daily as well as media coverage in other Chinese publications. The 
evidence establishes that these awards are nationally recognized and that her receipt of these awards 
garnered the Petitioner some national acclaim in China. However, she received these awards 
approximately 10 years prior to filing the petition and must demonstrate that she sustained this level 
of acclaim and remains at the very top of her field. 
For her performance in the television series I the Petitioner 
received the I I Actress award at the Television Award of China Radio 
3 
and Television Grand Prize in 2011. The award is described in the record as "the only government 
award for Chinese TV series," and documentation submitted indicates that the award is issued 
biennially. Although the record demonstrates some media coverage of these awards, the record does 
not include evidence that the award ceremony or the winners received media attention from major 
media or entertainment industry publications and does not otherwise establish to what extent this 
award contributed to the Petitioner's sustained national acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that she received the Award of China Most 
Favored Actress at the China I TV Festival in 2012. The Petitioner submitted search 
result statistics from Google for this award as well as a list of previous award winners from Baidu 
Encyclopedia, 1 noting that several of the past award winners are internationally renowned for their 
work. The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner received significant media 
coverage as a result of winning the award. Further, the record lacks evidence establishing the level of 
national acclaim associated with this achievement, or to what degree such acclaim was sustained, 
given that her next award, a China Film Performing Arts Institute Award, was received nearly seven 
years later inl 2019. While her receipt of the Most Favored Actress at the Chinal I I TV Festival garnered her some attention from the field, she has not shown that her receipt of 
this award resulted in or contributed to her sustained national or international acclaim. 
Regarding her China Film Performing Arts Institute Award, discussed above, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence demonstrating that this accolade is awarded to individuals who played roles in films "in the 
immediate past two years." According to the selection criteria, candidates for this award must also 
have achieved "excellent results in the new film performance" in either a leading or supporting role, 
and were required to submit an academic article summarizing the creative process of their role. The 
Petitioner again relied on the user-edited online encyclopedia site Baidu for information pertaining to 
past award winners, but provided insufficient evidence demonstrating that this competition is 
prestigious or well-known such that this award was nationally or internationally recognized and 
brought acclaim of that scope to the Petitioner. 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's awards establishes that she has received industry 
recognition based on her performances in television and in film, as well as some major media 
recognition, specifically as a result of herl I Awards received in 2010. The record 
demonstrates that she received all but one of her acting awards eight or more years prior to the filing 
of the petition in 2020, while the significance of her one more recent award has not been established. 
For these reasons, the evidence related to her awards does not demonstrate her sustained national 
acclaim in her field and indicate that she is currently among that small percentage who have risen to 
the very top of the field. 
Regarding published material about her, the Director determined that while the Petitioner submitted 
ample evidence demonstrating that she received media coverage within China, the record lacked 
evidence of major media coverage outside of China and internationally. Moreover, upon review, we 
note that many of the submitted articles were not supported by sufficient independent evidence to 
establish that the publications qualified as major media, as the Petitioner relied primarily on the 
publications' own websites, without providing objective evidence that such publications enjoy high 
1 We note that Baidu, similar to Wikipedia, is an online, open source, user-edited encyclopedia. 
4 
circulation or distribution in comparison in relation to others, or that they are professional or major 
trade media. 
Even if we determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to establish that all or most of 
the submitted articles had appeared in major media, the evidence does not establish that the articles 
published over the course of a decade-long career in the film and television industry are consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The submitted media coverage shows that the Petitioner has 
received media recognition for certain roles and projects during her career but does not demonstrate 
that she has enjoyed sustained national acclaim. The Petitioner works in a high-profile industry in 
which most, if not all, projects receive media coverage to some extent. Without evidence that sets her 
apart from others in this field, she has not established how the submission of the published articles 
about her demonstrates that she is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations 
implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high 
standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the 
petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 
Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Regarding the Petitioner's commercial success, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
commercial success of ______ a 2018 Chinese film in which she appeared. The box 
office ratings submitted demonstrate that this film has been widely viewed, and accordingly the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has achieved some degree of commercial success. However, the Petitioner 
does not offer evidence demonstrating that she has been recognized in the field for this success. For 
example, the Petitioner does not offer evidence showing how this film's commercial success sets her 
apart from that of the success of other films, and therefore other actors in her field of endeavor. 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, discussed above, we 
consider additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the 
evidence demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, we find that the 
evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she served as a juror for the Youth Film F es ti val 
in 201 7. The Petitioner, however, did not establish that her work on the judging committee of this 
youth film festival reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. She did not show, for example, that this single judging instance places her among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how her judging experience compares to others at the top of the field, that the committee included 
only nationally acclaimed artists, or that the judging committee members received significant 
recognition in the field as a result of their participation. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The record reflects that the Petitioner has enjoyed a career as a film 
and television actress, is regarded as a talented performer, and has received some industry and press 
5 
recognition with respect to a few of her projects over the years. However, the Petitioner seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are at the top of their respective fields. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19205411 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 2, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but later revoked that 
approval on notice under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2. The Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had provided false information to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) regarding her plans to continue working in the area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal. After reviewing the record, we issued a notice of our 
intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal, notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the 
record of proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal, and her withdrawal 
request was granted. We also entered a separate finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact 
against the Petitioner. The matter is again before us on a motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion 
to reconsider. 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, we dismissed the appeal based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 1 Although we 
issued a NOID notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the record of proceeding, 
she did not acknowledge, discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in her withdrawal request. Our 
NOID gave the Petitioner an opportunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that, if she did not overcome this information, then 
we would make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. We further advised that, 
while the Petitioner had the right to withdraw the petition, such a withdrawal would not prevent a 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. The Petitioner responded to the NOID with a 
request to withdraw the appeal, but she did not address the above-referenced adverse findings in any 
way. 
We determined that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about her prior employment 
and claimed recording career, which was material to the adjudication of the petition. On motion, the 
Petitioner does not identify a law or policy that we may have incorrectly applied in entering our finding 
ofwillfol misrepresentation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Instead, the Petitioner generally disputes our 
determination, arguing that she was the victim of a dishonest record company and was unaware that 
her CDs included falsified images. She also asserts that USCIS must have misunderstood her 
explanations regarding her employment history. In support of the motion, she submits a copy of her 
2015 income tax return issued by the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine as evidence of her employment 
and earned income for that time period. 
The Petitioner's motion does not meet the applicable requirements of a motion to reconsider because 
it does not establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In particular, the Petitioner does not cite to any pertinent precedent decision, 
statute, regulation, binding federal court decision, USCIS policy statement, or other applicable 
authority to establish that the original decision was defective in some regard. Although she contends 
that she had no knowledge of the falsified artwork used on her CD covers, and that she either misstated 
or USCIS misunderstood her employment history, her motion provides no specific citations to 
applicable law nor does it clearly articulate on what basis she believes the conclusions in our prior 
decision finding she willfully misrepresented a material fact were erroneous. A motion that does not 
meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(6); Matter of Cintron. 16 l&N Dec. 9 
(BIA 1976). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19709470 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 02, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the area ofl !vehicle competition and recreation, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner now appeals that decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur with experience in several aspects of the motorsports 
industry. The record shows that he has competed in I competitions, organized! I 
vehicle expeditions, and written articles in a magazine dedicated to vehicles and travel. He 
served as the Business Development Director of I and was project manager for the 
company's magazineJ I He states that he intends to create a similar company in the 
United States, where his roles will be to build and coach an I motorsports team, set up an auto 
services company to prepare and rent vehicles for competition, and organize car tours in the United 
States, Ukraine and Russia. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets six additional evidentiary 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Director failed to consider 
some of the criteria claimed by the Petitioner and applied incorrect or unclear standards with regard 
to other requirements under this classification. 
We first note that although the Petitioner plainly claimed to meet the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (viii) in his initial filing, and added a claim to the criterion at 
1 The Director considered evidence of some of the Petitioner's awards as one-time achievements in his decision. but the 
Petitioner did not make that claim in his initial filing or in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), nor does 
he do so on appeal. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) in responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Director's 
decision does not include an analysis of the evidence submitted under these criteria. 2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. 
In addition, when considering the evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director listed the evidence of 
the Petitioner's awards, but then noted requirements for the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) before concluding without analysis that this criterion was met. However, 
when considering evidence of a one-time achievement, the Director concluded that the 2019 
Award and the 2009 Cup ________ qualified as lesser 
nationally recognized awards, while others did not qualify because they were not awarded for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. Because this analysis references a different criterion 
and lacks a complete analysis of the evidence for each of the elements of this criterion, on remand the 
Director should clarify how the evidence of these awards was sufficient to meet this criterion. 
Further, when considering the evidence of published material about the Petitioner under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Director discounted two letters from officials of publications because 
"the authors of the letter[s] did not include a curriculum vitae to support the credibility of each author." 
We note that both letters were signed, dated, and written on the letterhead of the respective 
publications, and both were accompanied by complete and certified English translations. As the 
Director cited to no authority in discounting these letters due to the lack of an accompanying 
curriculum vitae, on remand he should consider these letters, together with the balance of the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, in determining whether the materials were published in 
qualifying media. 
Finally, with regard to whether the Petitioner met the requirement at section 203(b)(l)(iii) of the Act 
of showing that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States, we first note that 
the Director appears to conflate this requirement with the requirement at section 203(b )( 1 )(ii). As 
further explained under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), a petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that 
a noncitizen will continue in their area of expertise in the United States, which may include both letters 
from prospective employers and a detailed statement from the noncitizen concerning their plans. Here, 
as the Petitioner states on appeal, he has submitted both a detailed letter describing his plans to open 
a business focusing on both I competition and I I travel, and a letter from a photographer 
in the United States detailing plans to work with the Petitioner in conducting! I photographic 
tours. Therefore, this evidence demonstrates that he will continue to work in his field of endeavor in 
the United States. While the Director notes in his decision that the photographer does not work in the 
2 While we note that the Director's RFE included some discussion of two of these criteria, an RFE is not a final decision, 
and where as here the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and claims in response, it is based upon only a portion of 
the complete record. 
3 
Petitioner's field, he does not adequately explain his conclusion that the Petitioner's work with the 
photographer will not have substantial prospective benefits for the United States. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review 
that the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final merits 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he possesses the requisite sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20949716 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an art director, as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Beneficiary 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary has extensive experience in the commercial advertising, film, and television 
industries, where he has worked in visual effects, graphic design, art direction, video editing and other 
post-production roles. The Petitioner indicates its intent to employ the Beneficiary as an art director 
for several upcoming television projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others; and 
• (x) Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published materials about the Beneficiary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that it provided evidence in support of additional criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), in addition to the six criteria addressed in the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) and final decision. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
the Director failed to consider evidence relating to three additional criteria. Further, the Director's 
determinations with respect to certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the 
evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Although the Director did not address this criterion in the RFE or final decision, the record before the 
Director included evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of awards in his field. Specifically, the initial 
evidence included evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of a 20181 I award for 
a _____ award for the filml__Jissued by the Venezuelan! 
Commission for Education and Culture in 2017, and evidence related to the Beneficiary's 
receipt o __ Awards in the 1995-1996 edition of this annual Venezuelan advertising awards 
pro ram. In addition, the Petitioner's response to the RFE included additional information regardin 
th awards and indicated that the Beneficiary received additional awards for 
from the ________ International Film Festival in 2017 and a 2020 
award. The Petitioner submits additional evidence related to this criterion in support of the appeal. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate all evidence related to the Beneficiary's awards to determine 
if he had received an award that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) at the time the 
petition was filed in October 2020. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in same or an allied field of specialization for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a letter from the director of I I I I confirming the Beneficiary's participation as a member 
of the festival's jury in 2018. The Director's decision did not acknowledge the Petitioner's submission 
of this evidence and, as such, did not address this criterion in his decision. On appeal, the Petitioner 
emphasizes its previous submission of this evidence and provides supplemental evidence relating to 
the Beneficiary's services as a jury member. On remand, the Director should review the record, 
including the supplemental evidence submitted on appeal, to determine whether the Beneficiary met 
this criterion at the time of filing. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence included evidence that the 
Beneficiary's work, specifically on the feature film has been screened at independent film 
festivals and that such evidence meets the requirements of this criterion. As noted, the record included 
evidence indicating that the Beneficiary had received one or more film festival awards for his work on 
this film. The Petitioner also submits supplemental evidence in support of the appeal. As the matter 
is being remanded, the Director should review the Petitioner's claims and documentation to determine 
whether this criterion has been satisfied. 
With respect to the criteria addressed in the Director's decision, we observe that, while the Director 
listed some of the evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v) and 
(viii), he did not address this evidence with any specificity and as such, did not adequately explain 
why the evidence was insufficient to establish eligibility with respect to these criteria. For example, 
in addressing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to leading and critical roles for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Director stated: 
The evidence in the record did not establish that the beneficiary performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. The 
evidence in the record did not reflect the organization's or establishment's eminence 
distinction or excellence and thus it did not demonstrate the distinguished reputation of 
the organization or establishment for which the beneficiary performed in leading or 
critical roles. 
The Director did not make any reference to the evidence submitted to establish the reputation of the 
organizations that have employed the Beneficiary or why such evidence was determined to be 
deficient. As noted above, an officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). As the matter will be remanded for entry of a new decision, the Director 
should ensure that the decision, if adverse to the Petitioner, adequately explains why the submitted 
evidence is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. As the previously issued RFE did not address 
the Petitioner's evidence related to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (vii), the Director 
may issue a new RFE prior to issuing a final decision. Should the Director conclude upon review that 
the Beneficiary meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final merits 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary possesses the requisite sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20339501 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F .R. 204.5(h)(3) or showing that he 
received a major, internationally-recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a filmmaker who has written, directed, and edited short and feature films, and served 
as a video producer and editor for educational, corpor ional videos. The Petitioner has 
a bachelor of fine arts in film and video design from In titute of Design in India and 
received his master of fine arts in film directing from th _____ _,University i I 
in 2017. The record reflects that the Petitioner was in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status 
at the time of filing. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the six claimed criteria, specifically 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). We agree that the screening of the Petitioner's films at 
1 We acknowledge that the 0-1 classification is intended for nonimmigrants with extraordinary ability. Nevertheless , the 
record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts 
in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding. Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have 
different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in 
the nonirnmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F .R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary 
ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 
independent film festivals satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence 
of the display of an individual's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
However, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner provided evidence 
establishing that he has served in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will discuss this criterion 
along with the remaining three criteria below. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner documented his receipt of the following awards for his short and feature-length films: 
• Winner, Screen at the 2020 Film Festival 
• Winner, Bronz Award for AwardD at the 2018 T""""""""' International Film Festival 
• Winner for 2020 Screenplay Awards. 
With respect to these three awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the awards 
the Petitioner received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. 
With respect to his Bronzel I Award, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his award certificate, a 
congratulatory letter from the directors of thel I International Film Festival, information 
regarding the history of the festival from its website, and a list of notable filmmakers who have received I Awards in the past. The record reflects that the festival has over 200 sub-categories, with 
approximately 15-20% of all entries receiving awards across many categories. Awards are based on 
scoring by a jury with a score cutoff for each level of award, which include the I I as well as 
platinum, gold, silver, and bronze awards. The description of the festival indicate that it is international 
in scope and that several well-known filmmakers received their very first awards at I I 
While the evidence reflects that thel I festival is well-established in the independent film 
industry, it bestows hundreds of awards annually. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that every level of c=]Award in every category is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award. The issue here is not the national or international scope of the competition, or the 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in supp011 of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
reputation of the issuing body, but rather whether the Petitioner's specific award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. The record does not contain 
evidence of the nature or type of recognition the Petitioner received based on his award, such as media 
coverage of the 2018 festival in which he participated. Nor does it contain evidence of the nature and 
type of independent recognition thatOAward winners receive in general, outside of the festival itself. 
With respect to thel I Film Festival, the Petitioner provided the 2020 festival's list of 
winners in 90 categories from its website. This list includes the I Screenplay" award 
the Petitioner received for his filml I The only other evidence related to this festival is a brief 
history of the event from its website, indicating that it was created by two filmmakers in 2012 and intended 
to be a "world class independent film festival for independent filmmakers." Finally, with respect to his a award from I ts monthly screenplay awards, the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate and a congratulatory email addressed to him from the "Festival Team." Simply 
submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of a prize or award is not sufficient to meet this criterion 
unless the Petitioner submits evidence establishing that the prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. With respect to these two awards, the Petitioner 
did not sufficient documentary evidence, such as the selection criteria for award winners or evidence 
of the national or international recognition associated with his awards, to demonstrate that they meet 
all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that his awards from and thel I Film 
Festival appear on his Internet Movie Database (IMDb) page and asserts that this serves as evidence 
that they are nationally or internationally recognized awards. He submitted a copy of "Event 
Eligibility Criteria" published by IMDb which states that award events eligible for listing on the site 
should meet certain criteria. According to these criteria, eligible festival awards are those that have 
been established for more than five years, have an official website, have a well-established jury or 
method of selecting winners, and have received "regular international or national press coverage (wide 
or trade)." The information from IMDb states that events with "a nationally recognized broadcast 
awards ceremony or a festival award winner announced in recognized trade or other media 
publications would be eligible for listing." Notably, the information the Petitioner submitted from 
IMDb also states that "there are many Events listed on IMDb that do not meet [these] eligibility 
criteria." Based on this disclaimer, we cannot conclude that every award that IMDb accepts for 
submission to its site meets IMDb's own criteria, much less the specific requirements set forth at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For example, the record establishes that I has been established for more than five 
years, has an official website, and has a well-established method for selecting winners, but the record 
does not include evidence that the festival receives "regular international or national press coverage" 
or that festival award winners are announced in recognized trade other media publications. As noted, 
the Petitioner submitted a copy of his Bronze award but did not provide any evidence related to 
the announcement of the award in support of his claim that it should be deemed a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. His reliance on information from IMDb 
regarding its criteria for listing awards, for the reasons discussed, is not persuasive. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that other film festivals have recognized his work by nominating 
his films or screenplays for awards, or by naming his films as festival "official selections." These festivals 
4 
include I Film AwardsJ International Film Festival 
Film Festival,! Film Festival, I Film Festival,  International Film 
Festival, among others. However, neither an award nomination nor recognition as an "official selection" 
satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires evidence of a 
petitioner's receipt of an award or prize. 
Finally, the Petitioner submits for the first time on appeal evidence indicating his receipt of three 
additional prizes or awards at the I Festival and I Festival, held in India in 2010. 
However, prior to the denial of the petition, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) allowing the 
Petitioner the opportunity to supplement the record with additional documentation related to this criterion. 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion. Although 
we acknowledge that the Petitioner is the recipient of awards in his field which recognize the quality 
of his work, the evidence he submitted does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not meet this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted published articles that are about him and 
relating to his work as a filmmaker. However, the Director determined that some of the articles did 
not include the author of the material as required by the plain language of the criterion. Moreover, the 
Director concluded that none of the articles were accompanied by evidence regarding the intended 
audience of the publication or circulation statistics to demonstrate that they were published in major 
trade or professional publications or other major media. On appeal, the Petitioner resubmits the five 
articles he provided previously, but does not address or specifically contest the Director's reasons for 
concluding that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. 
The submitted articles appeared in the online publications Medium (medium.com), Front Line Views 
(frontlineviews.com), International Film Review (internationalfilmreview.net), Tinsel Town News 
5 
Now (tinseltownnewsnow.net) and Entertainment LA ( entertainmentla.weebly.com). Only two of the 
articles (from Medium and Front Line Views) identify the name of the author. Articles that do not 
identify an author do not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. 
Further, the record supports the Director's determination that none of the articles were accompanied 
by evidence of their publication in major trade or professional publications or other major media. We 
note that evidence of published material in major media publications should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics. 3 In order to establish 
that a publication is a professional or trade publication in a given field, the record should include 
evidence regarding the intended audience of the publication. Here, the Petitioner did not submit 
supporting evidence regarding the circulation or intended audience of the online publications in which 
the articles appeared. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two additional articles, but, as with the previously submitted 
evidence, these articles are not accompanied by evidence that the published materials meet all elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). One of the articles appeared in the "Student Spotlight" 
section of a newsletter published b I University in March 2017, and the other appeared 
on the website Gaysi Family (gaysifamily.com) in 2016. While both articles are about the Petitioner 
and relating to his work in the field, neither is accompanied by evidence to demonstrate that the articles 
were published by major trade or professional publications or other major media. 
We have reviewed all the evidence of published materials about the Petitioner and conclude that the 
record does not demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 4 The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from 
colleagues and former professors who work in the film industry and maintains that the statements from 
these experts are sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion, particularly, when considered with 
evidence of the display of his work at film festivals, his awards and nominations, and his media 
coverage. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his work through recommendation letters praising him for his films and for his talents as a writer, 
editor and director, the authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of 
major significance. 5 In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's achievements but do not 
demonstrate that his contributions to filmmaking have made the required impact in the field. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
4 Id. 
5 Although we do not address every letter individually, we have reviewed and considered each one in evaluating whether 
the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. 
6 
For example, a letter from producer/director I states that the Petitioner is "doubtlessly one 
of the most accomplished directors, writers and editors among his fellow filmmakers in the field" and 
indicates that the Petitioner "has more drive, tenacity and skill than all but a few of the scores of 
students in my numerous classes." I I further describes the Petitioner as "intelligent, 
inquisitive, clever and wise," and states that "his skills and work ethic rival those of many 
professionals" that he has encountered during his career. While the letter offers praise for the 
Petitioner's abilities as a filmmakerJ ldoes not attribute to the Petitioner a specific original 
contribution that has impacted or influenced the field of filmmaking. 
A letter from filmmaker! I similarly praises the Petitioner's talents and highlights his 
work as the director, writer and editor for the short fil notin that he successfully handled a 
sensitive subject in a way that was impactful with audiences. emphasizes thatl I 
achieved a high standing among peers, audiences and critics, as evidenced by its nominations for 
several film festival awards. While the selection of land other films for viewing at film 
festivals is evidence that the Petitioner has made contributions to his field, the Petitioner must also 
demonstrate that such contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the level of 
contributions of major significance, the Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on 
similar artists and similar works of art. Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the 
field as a whole). Although !recognizes the Petitioner's abilities and asserts that the 
recognition tha received from film festivals is a significant accomplishment, he does not 
provide the nexus between the Petitioner's talents and the manner in which he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements and 
discuss his career as a filmmaker. However, the authors do not provide a description of how the 
Petitioner's films, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance with the 
regulation. The letters, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues and former teachers, primarily 
contain broad attestations of the Petitioner's talents and the significance of his work without providing 
specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. For 
example! I praises the Petitioner's "intelligence, dedication and insight," indicates that 
he has a "unique viewpoint ... from growing up in India" and indicates that he is "very successful." 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.6 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments and 
their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's work in 
filmmaking has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 7 
The opinions of experts in the field are not without weight and have been considered above. USCIS 
may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted, we have carefully reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
of Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately 
responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit 
sought. Id. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not address this criterion or explain how his work as a 
filmmaker has significantly impacted the field. While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work has 
been displayed at independent film festivals and received some awards, the record does not contain 
evidence to establish such festivals specifically recognize only those films that have influenced the 
field as opposed to recognizing independent films for their artistic merit. Here, while the Petitioner 
has provided evidence that his work has garnered some recognition within the field, he has not 
demonstrated that his films have influenced others in the field or that he has otherwise made 
contributions that are of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that his role was (1) leading or critical; 
(2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or establishment 
has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. For a critical role, the evidence 
should establish that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 8 
The Petitioner asserted that that he meets this criterion because he "performed the leading and critical 
role of writer and editor in the creation of several acclaimed film productions," including the short 
films and a documenta that he wrote directed and edited for 
researchers a University an in India. The 
Petitioner indicated that the reference letters discussed above, the published materials, and the 
inclusion of his films in independent film festivals demonstrate that he satisfies all requirements set 
forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director determined, without discussing the submitted 
evidence, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. We disagree and will withdraw the Director's 
determination. 
While the record demonstrates that the Petitioner held a leading or critical role in the creation of the 
short films that he wrote, directed, and edited, the regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or 
critical "for organizations or establishments," and the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his 
independent films qualify as organizations or establishments. Therefore, even if we determined that he 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. ( citing to Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence"). 
8 
held a leading or critical role for a distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to 
meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Further, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner's films have received recognition based on their 
inclusion in independent film festivals but does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that any of 
his individual film productions has achieved a "distinguished reputation" within the film industry. 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that his films have received awards and nominations and have been 
mentioned in published articles, as discussed above, the record does not establish, for example, that his 
films have received or been nominated for nationally recognized awards or has been featured in major 
trade or professional publications or other major media. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20215990 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 13, 2022 
Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, anl !engineering manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner bad satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then be or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning a Bachelor of Engineering degree, specializing inl I engineering, from the 
Universit: ofl I in Australia, the Petitioner has worked since 2000 as an engineer in 
I IFollowing employment forl I and later as a consultant, the 
Petitioner began working for in 2011. Since 2013, he has worked for in the United States 
in various capacities. When he filed the petition in May 2021, he was ac=J engineering manager at I I Office in I I Texas, holding nonimmigrant status as an L-lA 
intracompany transferee in a managerial or executive capacity. The Petitioner states that has 
offered him "the position of Engineering Manager 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, and to have submitted comparable 
evidence relative to a fifth criterion, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles ( comparable evidence); 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner established a leading or critical role for a distinguished 
organization and high remuneration. We agree with the Director regarding these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "For his [petition] to be granted, [the Petitioner] needs to establish 
just one of the three [ remaining claimed] criteria ... and to demonstrate his entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States." But under the Kazarian framework, meeting three 
evidentiary criteria does not automatically or presumptively establish sustained national or 
international acclaim. The final merits determination must show that the record as a whole establishes 
such acclaim. The Petitioner asserts that he has established the required acclaim, but he does not 
elaborate beyond asserting that he meets three or more of the initial evidentiary criteria, which is 
insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof in this matter. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that he has met a third criterion through participating as a 
judge of the work of others. Because the satisfaction of three criteria is sufficient for us to proceed to 
a final merits determination, we need not discuss other claimed criteria at length. Nevertheless, the 
2 
final merits determination will take into consideration the evidence that the Petitioner has submitted 
regarding his claims of original contributions of major significance and comparable evidence of 
scholarly articles and leading or critical role. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
Much of the evidence in the record concerns the Petitioner's role and reputation withinl I The 
Petitioner holds a position of significant responsibility at earning compensation in excess of half a 
million dollars per year. But, while we acknowledge thar==J is a majorl I company, that fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner asserts that his "ideas have also left a lasting impact on thel I industry, given that 
many of the world's topl I companies are shareholders in nearly all of I projects." But the 
Petitioner has also repeatedly argued that much of his work is confidential. For example, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) calls for evidence of authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner has asserted that internal 
L__Jmaterials constitute comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), because it cannot be 
published outside the company owing to its proprietary nature. 2 
There is an obvious tension between the two assertions that, on the one hand, the Petitioner has an impact 
throughout the industry, while on the other hand much of his work product cannot be disseminated outside 
of These conflicting perspectives complicate any attempt to show that the Petitioner has earned 
acclaim beyond the company that employs him. The assertion without evidence that I success has 
a "ripple effect" among other companies, and that the Petitioner's innovations have spurred rival 
companies to make improvements to their own practices, does not translate to wider recognition of the 
Petitioner individually, which is what the statute and regulations require. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for the submission of comparable evidence in instances when the 
regulatory criteria do not readily apply to the occupation. If professional or major trade publications exist in the field of I I engineering, then the "scholarly articles" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) should readily apply to the 
Petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner contends that there are few such publications, but nevertheless they do exist. The 
Petitioner submits a web printout listing several hundred journal titles, only one of which has a title 
that clearly relates to the industry. This list of journal titles is not comprehensive; rather, it is a list of journals 
issued by one publisher, identified only by the copyright notice attributed to "Open Access Publisher." The several hundred 
titles on the submitted list amount to only a small fraction of the "28,100 active scholarly peer-reviewed English-language 
journals" mentioned elsewhere in the record. The available evidence, although incomplete, is sufficient for us to conclude 
that the "scholarly articles" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) readily applies tol I engineering. 
3 
Letters intended to show how the Petitioner has impacted the field include qualifiers that appear to limit 
the scope of his contributions. For example, they may indicate that particular safety and efficiency 
initiatives are used on numerouQprojects in the I which does not indicate adoption 
throughout the field. Assertions of wider impact, influence, or setting an example for the industry lack 
specificity and corroboration. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "developed a plan to enable a crane to continue working safely [ during] 
helicopter operations," whereas prior practice was to "shut down all crane operations prior to landing a 
helicopter" onl I The Petitioner contends that "[t]his is a major change in the 
industry," but he does not show that the practice has been adopted outside I I Rather, the Petitioner 
describes a pilot program that has only recently begun implementation on a small number of SSuch 
innovations may present important cost reductions for the Petitioner's employer, but he has not shown 
that they have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
Furthermore, it is sometimes difficult to tell whether the Petitioner personally devised certain initiatives 
and projects, or, rather, promoted and shepherded ideas that originated elsewhere. For instance, the 
operations manager of I I one ofl I contractors, states that the Petitioner led "the 
collaborative development and implementing of ___________ procedures for 
and I I Used in other parts of the industry, [ the Petitioner] led the implementation of these 
processes/or collaborations between and (Emphasis added.) The record does not 
establish that this is the Petitioner's original contribution. The letter's phrasing suggests that processes 
were already "[u]sed in other parts of the industry," in which case the Petitioner's adoption of those 
methods "for collaborations between andl may have benefited those two companies, 
but it would not have amounted to an original contribution on his part. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has served on various committees and review panels involving other 
companies and government agencies. But the record does not establish how common or uncommon it is 
for high-ranking engineers in the Petitioner's field to serve in this way. Furthermore, while some of these 
bodies included individuals from different companies and government agencies, the above-mentioned 
general manager states that the Petitioner "was selected b leadership for participation in teams and 
committees." Thus, his selection does not inherently demonstrate recognition outside the company. 
Without evidence to provide a broader context, the Petitioner's participation in these bodies is not 
inherently an indication of sustained national or international acclaim. The Director acknowledged the 
Petitioner's apparent prominence within finding that he performs in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation, fulfilling the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); the 
question is not whether the Petitioner's work is important td I but rather, whether he has achieved 
the broader recognition, rising to the level of sustained national or international acclaim, that the statute 
and regulations demand. 
For the above reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established the sustained national or 
international acclaim required for eligibility. Therefore, we need not consider the separate question 
of whether his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 3 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We will dismiss the appeal, because the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19576069 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 13, 2022 
Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. 
On appeal from that decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not met the threshold evidentiary 
requirements . Because the Director had already addressed the issue of sustained national or 
international acclaim, we also discussed that issue, agreeing with the Director's conclusions on that 
point. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Before he entered the United States, the Petitioner competed at high levels in Ukraine, Italy, France, 
and Greece. The Athletic Club, d/b/a I filed a nonimmigrant petition to 
classify the Petitioner as an 0-lA nonimmigrant, and the club hired him as a coach after he arrived in 
the United States in 2019. 
2 
In the October 2020 I-140 petition denial notice, the Director granted three of the Petitioner's claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria, but concluded, in the final merits determination, that the Petitioner had not 
shown sustained national or international acclaim. The Director also noted that the Petitioner's most 
notable career accomplishments were as an athlete, rather than as a coach. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2021, concluding that the Petitioner had not met at least 
three of the threshold criteria. Because the Director had already undertaken a final merits 
determination, we also concluded that the Petitioner had not established sustained national or 
international acclaim either as an athlete or as a coach. 
Much of the disputed evidence relates to the Petitioner's career as an athlete, but he seeks employment 
in the United States as a coach. Guidance from the USCIS Policy Manual relates directly to this point: 
Some of the most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the 
beneficiary's intent is to come to the United States and be employed as an athletic coach 
or manager. Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in 
general are not in the same area of expertise .... 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 1 
(Emphasis added.) In this case, the Petitioner competed internationally as recently as 2018. As we 
noted in our appellate decision, there have been conflicting determinations regarding individual 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and much of the evidence submitted on motion concerns 
the Petitioner's career as a competitive athlete rather than as a coach. A motion to reopen or reconsider 
does not entail de novo review of the full record, and even if we were to find that the Petitioner had 
established past acclaim as an athlete, there would remain the key issue of whether he had sustained 
that acclaim as a coach. 
We have considered all the evidence and arguments submitted on motion. Nevertheless, given the 
above facts and policy guidance, the ultimate question is whether the Petitioner has shown that his 
coaching activity has been at a level consistent with sustained national or international acclaim.2 For 
the reasons explained below, we conclude that he has not made such a showing. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
1. The Petitioner as an Athlete 
1 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Because acclaim is considered in the context of the final merits determination, determining whether the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained acclaim as a coach does not require an underlying finding that he meets the underlying evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as a coach. 
3 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that his work as an athlete satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to prizes or awards; 
membership in associations; and judging the work of others. In our appellate decision, we concluded that 
the Petitioner had met only the criterion relating to prizes or awards. On motion, the Petitioner does not 
dispute the determination relating to original contributions, but maintains that he meets the other six 
criteria claimed previously. 
Upon review of newly-submitted evidence regarding! I national! I team, we conclude 
that the Petitioner's membership on that team is essentially a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual, 
which indicates that selection for "a national all-star or Olympic team might serve as comparable evidence 
for evidence of memberships." 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that an article from www.sport.ua was about the Petitioner, 
relating to his work in his field, but we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the publication 
is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Evidence submitted on motion 
establishes that www.sport.ua is ranked #10 among sports websites in I This information is 
sufficient to show that the website is a qualifying publication for purposes of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the satisfaction of these three criteria is sufficient for us to proceed to a final merits determination, 
we need not discuss the Petitioner's evidence and arguments relating to the other three claimed criteria. 3 
Nevertheless, as explained above, the Petitioner seeks employment as a coach, rather than as a competitive 
athlete, and therefore the evidence must show that he has earned acclaim as a coach. 
2. The Petitioner as a Coach 
In our appellate decision, we discussed the after-the-fact claim (in a letter from 2020) that the Petitioner 
had briefly served as an assistant coach in 2016-17. We concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted 
any contemporaneous evidence to confirm that this claimed coaching work took place; its effect on the 
team's success; or its wider impact on the field overall. We also noted that, during the 2016-2017 season, 
4 
the Petitioner was also actively competing, and we concluded that the Petitioner had not established the 
extent or proportion of his claimed coaching duties. 
Newly submitted evidence regarding thel I national __ team does not establish that he 
coached the team, or that he earned acclaim for doing so. 
Other evidence submitted on motion concerns the Petitioner's more recent work with the ____ I I club. Previously, the Petitioner had submitted letters from the club's executive director, which 
we discussed in our appellate decision. In a new letter (dated February 2021), that same official states 
that the Petitioner "performs the duties of Head I I coach of the club and Technical Director of 
the I section." 
The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). At the time of filing in 2019, the Petitioner appears to have had a more limited role at the 
club. In his first letter, the club's executive director described the Petitioner as a "Master Coach" who 
served as a lead coach "for many of our programs," rather than for the club as a whole. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner's apparent promotion within the organization is not inherently a sign of national or international 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner states that the club pays him an annual salary of $50,000, which "is in the highest bracket," 
whereas "the average annual salary for this position is $40,000." The Petitioner apparently bases these 
assertions on a newly submitted printout from SimplyHired, pertaining to I Coach Salaries in 
Texas." The printout indicates that the average annual salary is $34,216, and $58,895 is at the 90th 
percentile. But this information does not appear to be directly relevant, because the data apply to all 
I I coaches, whereas the Petitioner earns $50,000 per year as a head coach. The pay differential 
between a coach and a head coach reflects a head coach's higher authority and greater responsibilities, 
without necessarily taking acclaim into consideration. 
The evidence submitted on motion also includes a printout from ZipRecruiter, indicating that the yearly 
"Head I Coach Salary in Texas" ranges from $15,063 to $81,718, and that the "Texas Average" 
is $52,710. The Petitioner's $50,000 salary is, therefore, slightly below the 'Texas Average," and well 
below the high end of the range. 
Even then, the Petitioner was not yet earning $50,000 a year when he filed the petition in 2019. A payroll 
printout from summer 2019 shows gross payments of $1384.62 every two weeks, which extrapolates to 
an annual salary of $36,000. The Petitioner has not shown that this level of compensation is reserved for, 
or indicative of, sustained acclaim in his field. 
In one of his earlier letters, the club's executive director stated that one of the club's teams had won "a 
Silver Medal nationally at the Boys USA I IN ational Event. ... We owe this success to the 
preparation that was given by [the Petitioner]." In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner 
did not submit sufficient evidence to substantiate this assertion. The Petitioner's evidence named 
individual athletes, but did not show that they played for thel I or that the Petitioner had 
coached them. The Petitioner does not address or resolve this issue on motion. The motion does not 
include any new evidence concerning the performance of1 I athletes or the Petitioner's role 
in coaching them. 
5 
Previously, and again on motion, the Petitioner has submitted published materials regarding, and dating 
from, his earlier career as a competitive athlete. The Petitioner does not claim that his coaching work has 
attracted similar notice in either the sports press or more general media. Whatever success and recognition 
the Petitioner may have achieved as a I player, his employment with what is claimed to be among 
the largest youthl clubs in Texas is not inherently indicative of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner's motion includes new evidence, establishing that he meets at least three of the threshold 
evidentiary criteria as an athlete. For the reasons discussed above, however, we conclude that this 
evidence does not establish proper cause for reopening the proceeding; the new evidence does not 
show that the Petitioner has established acclaim and recognition as a coach, as required based on his 
position and for the classification sought. We will, therefore, dismiss the motion. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not established "extraordinary ability 
as al I athlete, or as a coach." The errors that the Petitioner alleges on motion all concern his 
earlier work as an athlete. As such, these arguments do not affect the critical question of whether any 
acclaim he may have earned as an athlete has been sustained and carried forward into his coaching 
career. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that our decision on this point was incorrect based 
on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. As a result, we must dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20055457 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dance instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstra te recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the following two criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for three 
additional criteria. After reviewing the record, the Petitioner did establish that she meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she "has contributions of major significance to the DanceSport 
industry of the State of las well as the United States, by virtue of being a competitive coach for 
highly successful dancers, who have won prestigious national and international ballroom dance 
championships and international dance events from 2009 till present." Specifically, the Petitioner 
cites to three reference letters discussing her work with students. I !described the 
Beneficiary's coaching of I "who at the I lbecame a cham ion of the country and 
since did not lose that title in any of the age-groups." Likewise listed various students 
of the Beneficiary and stated that "they are Champions of and winners of top places in such 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 
prestigious international dancesport competitions." Similarly, mentioned several 
topics the Beneficiary covered at the Dance Academy and opined that her "students are 
amongl I most outstanding competitive dancers, who have achieved impressive success at the 
most important international level competitions in dancesport," and "[t]he results that [the Petitioner's] 
students achieved at these prestigious international competitions, placing as high as in top 10 and top 
15, validated the decision to trust them with the role ofrepresentatives in our country." Further I lstated that "our academy's training camps led by [the Petitioner] have resulted in significant 
improvement in our student's performance and have invited increased interest toward our Academy's 
work." 
The Petitioner also contends that her "work also impacted the DanceSport industry of the United States 
for a sustained period of times, starting 2018 through the present, as evidenced by the accomplishments 
of her students at DanceSport Club." She references a letter from I and 
who indicated that the Petitioner "has been coaching us and supervising our 
training process at Dance Sport Club since the middle of 2019, making a great contribution 
to our achievements." 
In this case, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the personal achievements of her students represent 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Moreover, the letters do not articulate how 
the Petitioner has impacted the overall field beyond the schools at where she taught or the students 
with whom she coached. 2 Furthermore, while the letters list various dance finishes of her students, 
they do not elaborate and explain the significance of these placements in the field or how the 
Petitioner's coaching of these students to various finishes rises to the level of original contributions of 
major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. Although the letters praise the Petitioner 
for her coaching abilities, they do not show how the Petitioner has impacted the field in a majorly, 
significant manner. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 3 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). We note that her contributions to the dance schools and 
academies are more applicable to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, a(J'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion. However, we will not 
consider new eligibility claims or evidence in our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required 
evidence and given a reason opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not 
consider evidence submitted on appeal of any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based 
on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 
1988). 5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 6 In his decision, the Director stated 
that while the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from an accountant certifying the Petitioner's 
employment as a ballroom dance coach earning an hourly rate of 2260 and the minimum wage in 
is 29.12, "there is no indication of the minimum wage data is for professionals in [the 
Petitioner's] field or the minimum wage in the country of in general." Further, the Director 
indicated that the Petitioner submitted short-term payments, a report from btl.gov reflecting hourly 
and monthly data of workers from 1997 -201 7 rather than from dance instructors, and a report from 
indeed.com showing the average salaries of dance instructors in the United States rather than high 
salaries. In addition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not offer any supporting financial 
documentation, such as payroll record or income tax forms, demonstrating the Petitioner's actual 
earnings for any given time. 
In respondinJ to the Petitioner's RFE documents, the Director indicated that the Petitioner submitted 
a U.S. Dollar FX Spot Rate chart from 2014-2021 and a list of wage recipients in 2014 
from the OL-SI Association for Promoting Ballroom Dancing inl I for four other 
individuals. The Director further stated: 
[The Petitioner] also submitted a printout from plando.co of the OL-SI accounting 
system showing [the Petitioner worked 150 hours in 2014 and a SalaryExpert report 
showing Dance Teachers i earn an average (not high) salary range from 63,598 
yr to 74/350 yr. This evidence establishes that [the Petitioner] earned a higher 
salary than other instructors at OL-SI but it does not establish that [the Petitioner has] 
earned a significantly high salary in relation to others in the greater field. We must also 
note that in criterion V, the letter from I I indicates that [the 
5 The Petitioner did not assert eligibility for this criterion either at the initial filing of the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
Petitioner] found OL-SI and it would stand to reason that [the Petitioner] would earn a 
higher salary that others within the organization. Further [ the Petitioner] did not submit 
any information to show how many hours the other instructors worked compared to 
[the Petitioner]. 
The Director also indicated that the Petitioner provided her OL-SI payroll statements for 2016 -2018 
and reports for the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics choreographers for 2016 -2018 and found: 
According to [the Petitioner's] payroll statements from OL-SI [the Petitioner] earned 
only $1,471.10 higher than the lowest wages in 2016, $3852 higher than the lowest 
wages in 2017, and $6,384 less than the lowest wages in 2018 according to the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Further we must note that [the Petitioner] seek[s] to enter 
the United States as a Dance Instructor. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports 
[the Petitioner] provided are for occupations of Choreographers. While the two [] 
occupations are related a Dance Teacher generally teaches how to execute dance steps 
while a Choreographer teaches a string of movements to do with accompanying music 
for a performance. Thus, [the Petitioner has] not established that [she] meet[s] this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence "[t]o overcome these contentions." Again, we 
will not consider new evidence that was not previously presented before the Director. See Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. at 766; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 533. In this case, the Director evaluated the 
offered evidence and correctly determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she commanded 
a high salary in relation to other dance instructors. As discussed bby the Director, the Petitioner presented e evidence comparing her wages to the minimum wages in to the average wages in 
to the average wages of dance instructors in I and limited to the wages of others at OL-
SI. 7 The Petitioner did not compare her salary to the high salaries of dance instructors inl I 
showing that she commands a high salary. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
7 In addition, although she used her wages in she submitted comparable evidence to the wages of dance instructors, 
as well as choreographers, in the United States. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that persons 
working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States). 
5 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
8 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20882300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , area estate developer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but then revoked that 
approval, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had established eligibility for 
the immigrant classification she sought. The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The Petitioner submitted a brief statement in support of her appeal, and indicated that a supplemental brief would be 
forwarded to our office within 30 days. No further documentation has been received. Therefore , the record will be 
considered complete as currently constituted . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155 states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself: the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability based on her work as a real 
estate developer, and her Form I-140 petition was initially approved. Subsequently, the Director 
issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) the approval upon receiving information from the United 
States Consulate in Guangzhou that the Petitioner did not intend to work in the United States in the 
field as outlined in her business plan, and further indicated that she had no involvement in the real 
estate projects she initially claimed she would develop. In the NOIR, the Director stated that this 
information contradicted the claims set forth by the Petitioner in her business plan and cast doubt on 
whether the Petitioner would continue to work in the field of real estate development as required under 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a personal statement, stating that she and her husband 
incorporated their U.S. company in California in 20152 with the intention to provide planning and 
development services to rundown and impoverished areas of the United States. She claimed that in 
2017, as a result of academic challenges faced by her son, her family moved back to China, and this 
unexpected move put her development plans on hold but that she intended to resume her plans in the 
future. Regarding the contradictions noted during her consular interview, the Petitioner asserts that 
the consular officer either misunderstood her responses or incorrectly translated her answers. 
The Director revoked the approval of the petition on December 17, 2020, dete1mining that the 
Petitioner's response to the NOIR was not persuasive in establishing that she would be coming to the 
United States to continue working in the field of real estate development. Specifically, the Director 
noted that the documentation submitted in response to the NOIR, which included undated copies of 
an international investment certificate and wire transfer to a U.S. bank, documents demonstrating the 
account balance of a I laccount for the period from November 30, 2017, to March 31, 2018, a 
2018 wire transfer receipt that is partially illegible, and her marriage certificate, did not support her 
claim that she was misunderstood during her interview or was coming to the U.S. to continue working 
in her field of expertise. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a one-page personal statement, again asserting that her answers to 
the questions posed in the consular interview were misunderstood. She argues on appeal that the 
Director erred by ignoring the documentation she submitted in support of eligibility, specifically 
asserting that her business plan, proof of finance, articles of incorporation, and proof of wire transfer 
sufficiently established that she would be coming to the U.S. to work in the field of real estate 
development. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires "clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United 
States to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." 
Here, the record does not contain clear evidence that the Petitioner will continue work in her area of 
expertise in the United States. Although she asserts on appeal that her original business plan, covering 
2 Corporate records submitted into the record demonstrate that her company was incorporated in California in 2014, but 
dissolved in 2015. 
3 
the period from 2017 to 2019, sufficiently outlines her intended business operations in the United 
States, the plan is now outdated as noted by the Director, and the Petitioner acknowledges she departed 
the United States in 2017 prior to implementing any projects outlined therein . Although she refers to 
articles of incorporation on appeal, corporate documentation submitted in response to the NOIR 
indicate that her company I was dissolved in December 
2015, over a year prior to the filing of the instant petition, and no documentation has been submitted 
to demonstrate that a new corporation or business venture was in operation at the time of filing or has 
since been launched. 
We also note her reliance on the financial documents submitted in response to the NOIR, but as 
discussed by the Director, these documents do not establish that she wi11 be coming to the United 
States to work as a real estate developer as originally claimed. Some documents are undated, one is 
illegible, and the documents demonstrating a wire transfer and thel I account balances are in her 
husband's name. The Director noted that these documents did not have significant evidentiary weight 
given their illegibility and absence of dates. Moreover , given the consular officer's report that the 
Petitioner stated she had no intention of working in the U.S. and that the identified projects were her 
husband's projects, the fact that the legible financial documents submitted relate solely to her husband 
suggests that the projects may in fact be his projects and the consular officer reported, and thus 
unde1mine her claims that she was misunderstood during her interview. 
The above inconsistencies, discrepancies, and contradictory statements are not resolved by 
independent, objective evidence, and diminish the reliability of the evidence in support of the 
Petitioner's claim that she is coming to the United States to work in the field of real estate 
development. Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may lead to a reevaluation of the 
reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter of 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. While the Petitioner maintains that there was some misc01rununication 
that occurred during her interview , she did not submit new objective independent evidence 
establishing her intent to come to the United States to work in the field or to support her assertion that 
her answers were misunderstood by the consular officer. A mere explanation is not the independent 
objective evidence contemplated by Matter of Ho, and we find the explanations offered unpersuasive. 
Insufficient reason exists to doubt that the consular interview was competently conducted and 
faithfully reported. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not contain clear evidence that the Petitioner will continue work in her area of 
expertise in the United States. Therefore, she has not established eligibility pursuant to section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the petition's approval will remain revoked. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20612257 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 17, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business executive in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that record did not establish 
that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as 
required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business executive with more than 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical 
industry. The record reflects that she most recentl served asl !(Managing 
Director) of from 2017 until 2019. She previously 
worked as a General Manager of (2013 to 201 7) and spent 17 years 
working in progressive positions for th roup of companies in Europe and the Americas, most 
recently as Executive President of in Venezuela from 2011 to 2013. The Petitioner 
indicates that she intends to establish a U.S.-based consulting business to assist, coach and mentor 
business and organizational leaders. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires documentation of 
published material about the petitioner, relating to their work, in major trade or professional 
publications or other major media. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
met this criterion. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she can satisfy five additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all the evidence provided, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore has not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
1 The record includes a 2019 online article titled ________________ published by 
The article is about the Petitioner , includes the required title, date, and author, and is accompanied by evidence 
that the publication qualifies as major media, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This regulatory criterion requires evidence of the petitioner's receipt of prizes or awards and evidence 
that such prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner established that she was the recipient of three awards: (1 ) ________ 
Award, presented by the 18th Edition of the Asia Pacific HRM Congress in 2019 and (2) two awards 
I I Award and I !Award) presented to her byl I in 2017. Although we 
acknowledge that the awards granted by I I recognize the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, the record does not establish the national or international significance of the awards 
or that the company's internal company awards program, which is necessarily limited to persons who 
work within a single organization, meets the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not pursue her claim that she meets this criterion based on her awards from 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a copy of her award certificate 
and a screenshot from the Asia Pacific HRM Congress website promoting its 2019 awards. The 
website lists the organizational and individual award categories. According to this information, entries 
for the individual category awards should be accompanied by a personal profile for the nominated 
person with information such as achievements, awards or accolades received, media coverage, articles 
published, photographs and "any other relevant details." The website indicates that "[t]he Jury will 
evaluate each entry & will decide on winners." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence was not 
sufficient to establish that the awards she received met all requirements of this criterion. The Director 
advised that she should submit additional objective evidence demonstrating who is eligible for 
consideration for such awards, the criteria used to grant the awards, and the significance of the prizes 
or awards, to include the national or international recognition associated with them and the number of 
prizes awarded each year. 
In response, the Petitioner resubmitted a copy of her award certificate and the website printout from 
the Asia Pacific HRM Congress regarding the 2019 awards. The only additional evidence she 
provided was a copy of an edited post on her Linkedin page in which she quoted the invitation she 
received from the 18th Asia Pacific HRM Con ress. The uoted portion of the post indicates that she 
would be receivin the title of which the issuin or anization described 
as The organizer's 
invitation indicated that the bases of selection for this award include building a sustainable leadership 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 
(indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
pipeline in the organization, empowerment, social change, ability to influence and "building a 
successor in line and career path." 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit objective evidence establishing that her _________ Award" is a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for 
excellence in her field and therefore did not meet her burden to establish that it meets all requirements 
of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the evidence described above. In the appellate brief, counsel 
emphasizes that the website of the Asia Pacific HRM Congress states that its awards program 
recognizes the "Best of the Best." Counsel further states that "the number of awardees is limited to 
one in each category, but it is open to any institution in the Asia Pacific region," that "the award has 
great significance in the field," and that is "internationally recognized -in all Asia Pacific region." 
However, the record lacks objective evidence supporting these statements. Assertions of counsel do 
not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of 
Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in 
the record with independent evidence. 
While we acknowledge that the Asia Pacific HRM Congress is an international organization, this fact 
alone does not establish that its annual meeting issues awards that are nationally or internationally 
recognized in the Petitioner's field as awards for excellence. The record does not include evidence 
demonstrating the recognition associated with the award outside the issuing organization. Rather, the 
only information regarding the award was sourced from the organization's own website. The 
Petitioner did not offer supporting evidence, such as coverage of the award in professional or trade 
publications or other media or other evidence showing the award's recognition for excellence in the 
field. Finally, although requested by the Director, the record does not contain sufficient information 
and evidence regarding the entry and selection process and the criteria used to select award recipients. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she has been the recipient of an award 
that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must document their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.3 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she meets this criterion based on her membership in Young 
Presidents' Organization (YPO), her membership in the The Or anization of 
Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI), and her election and service as I I for the German Venezuelan Chamber of Industry and Commerce. The Director 
determined that she did not meet her burden to establish that any of these associations or organizations 
require outstanding achievements as a condition for membership or that such achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner's does not contest the Director's determination that she did not establish 
eligibility based on her participation in the of OPPI and her I 
position withl 4 Accordingly, we will limit our review to her claim that her membership in 
YPO meets all requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
With respect to her membership in YPO, the Petitioner submitted: 
• Letter from the Chapter Manager of YPO Mumbai Connect confirming the Petitioner's 
membership in this chapter, one of 15 in the South Asia Region 
• Screenshot of the Petitioner's membership profile page from the YPO Connect website 
• YPO membership criteria and application procedure from the organization's website 
(YPO.org) 
• Letter from _________ Grupo Maso, who states that he invited the Petitioner 
to join the YPO Venezuelan chapter in 2012 
According to the YPO website, the organization requires prospective members to establish that they: 
(1) possess a qualifying title within their company or division (managing director, president, or board 
chairperson); (2) supervise at least 50 employees; (3) meet YPO's age requirement (under age 45 at 
the time of application), and (4) work for a qualifying corporation. To establish employment with a 
qualifying corporation, applicants must establish that their employer meets threshold financial 
requirements (minimum gross turnover or assets). 
The YPO website indicates the foregoing criteria are the minimum requirements and that individual 
YPO chapters may have additional criteria. In addition, it states that "the application must be certified 
by an outside auditing firm or other approved independent third party." The third party must verify 
the applicant's job title, the number of employees supervised and their annual compensation, and the 
company sales/turnover. 
With respect to the application and review process, the YPO website indicates that applications are 
reviewed by a "YPO membership development manager" and forwarded to a local chapter for 
consideration if all quantitative criteria are met. It states that local chapters have their own processes 
for admitting members. With respect to applicants that meet the quantitative requirements, it states: 
4 We observe that although the Director stated that the Petitioner established her membership in OPPI and I I the 
record does not contain objective evidence demonstrating that either of these organizations admits individual members 
based on a review of their individual achievements. Rather, it appears that she held elected or appointed positions as the 
representative of a member company. For example, a letter from the Director General of OPPI states that the Petitioner 
was part of the executive committee while representing I I 
5 
Meeting the specific quantitative requirements does not automatically guarantee 
admittance into YPO. There are other important, less easily defined requirements that 
also need to be met. These are qualitative in nature and are at the discretion of the 
current chapter's executive committee. 
While the evidence submitted clearly states the organization-wide threshold quantitative requirements 
for YPO membership, the record does not contain evidence from either local chapter that admitted the 
Petitioner addressing any additional requirements, their local process for admitting members, or 
information as to how they make discretionary decisions based on undefined qualitative factors. The 
evidence does not establish that the stated quantitative requirements (pertaining to the applicant's age, 
job title, company's finances, and the number of personnel supervised), although confirmed by third­
party auditors, are subject to being judged by recognized experts in the field who make membership 
decisions. 
The evidence indicates that final decisions are made by local chapter executive committees, but the 
record does not demonstrate that such committee positions are held by recognized national or 
international experts in the Petitioner's field. 5 Nor does the record identify or document the 
discretionary qualitative factors these executive committees consider, such that we could determine 
whether "outstanding achievements," beyond the quantitative data collected on the application, are a 
condition for membership. 
The evidence submitted in support of this criterion must demonstrate that, as a condition of being 
granted membership in an association, the person was judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. We 
acknowledge that holding a senior executive position for a qualifying company relatively early in 
one's career is a significant professional achievement. However, but for the reasons discussed, the 
record does not establish that membership in YPO meets all elements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation and evidence of 
her participation in panel discussion and events and webinars. The Director concluded, however, that 
while the record reflects that the Petitioner has made business contributions that impacted her 
employer, the evidence did not demonstrate that she had made business-related contributions that had 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner submits an excerpt from the YPO website which identifies the members of its _____ 
She states "approval of membership eligibility" is made by this Board and they are recognized expe1is in the field. 
However, as discussed above, the evidence submitted from the organization indicates that final decisions regarding 
membership are made by executive committees at the local chapter level, rather than the Board for the larger YPO 
organization. 
6 
a broader impact or influence, such that her contributions could be considered of major significance 
in the field. The Director emphasized that the letters were not supported by sufficient independent 
and objective evidence establishing the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the letters she submitted from "renowned people in the field" 
were supported with independent evidence that discusses her contributions, such as published articles 
and a book in which she was interviewed. She states that she was "the firstl I I I in the world of business" and was given this title because she "headed a comprehensive and 
transformational effort of applying I I to a large and complex commercial 
operation atl I' The Petitioner maintains that while this approach initially impacted her 
employer it "has gained global recognition" as evidenced by the submitted media coverage. 
In reviewing this criterion, we have considered the submitted letters, 6 published materials, the 
Petitioner's participation in panels and workshops in her field, her work on the I 
of OPPI, as well as her statement in support of the petition. For the reasons discussed below, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner's business-related contributions are of major significance 
in her field. 
In her statement, the Petitioner explained that in her last assignment withl I (frfrom 201 7 
to 2019) she "received the mandate to implement a transformational operating model and a new 
approach to business and leadership." She indicates that the new strategy was implemented within 
one year, served as "a benchmark for several other companies" and "had influenced other leaders in 
the healthcare sector in India and the world." The Petitioner also emphasized that during her tenure 
with OPPI, she "led the member companies to work together on a strategy that followed the principle 
of bringing social impact to the association strategy, focusing on results beyond ... selling our 
products, supporting the increase of access in Healthcare." In addition, the Petitioner emphasized that 
her efforts "to support the healthcare broader impact and a more humanized leadership" have resulted 
in invitations to participate in panel discussions and roundtables to discuss the future ofleadership and 
healthcare. 
The Petitioner's supporting evidence includes a letter from 
atl I who states he reported to her during her tenure with that company. He states 
that the Petitioner's " eo le centric leadership style infused excitement and optimism in each and 
every employee of and drove the organization to create a 2030 vision that centered around 
transforming healthcare in & care for every patient's life." He states that this "industry first" 
vision was "complemented with a detailed strategic roadmap, a patient centric operating model and a 
purpose driven organization culture."I !credits the Petitioner's "visionary and leadership 
centric leadership style" with yielding business growth, increased employee engagement scores, and 
the signing of several long-term MOUs focused on delivering broader healthcare impact with several 
government and large private organizations" which "set a defining trend in the industry." He further 
mentions that the Petitioner "regularly spoke at many industry conferences sharing her forward­
looking views on how corporates can deliver a much larger impact on society, purpose driven 
leadership, and building Quantum organizations." 
6 While we do not discuss every letter in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each one in evaluating whether 
the Petitioner established that she meets this criterion. 
7 
A letter froml I also a senior manager with I I discusses the Petitioner's work, 
notin that she "contributed significantly to the organization," and transformed it by bringing in 
developing a long-term vision, and building a strategy to achieve the vision. 
describes the Petitioner's operating model as "extremely futuristic as compared to the peer 
companies" and states that it "has been a benchmark for many who wish to transform their 
organizations." While she indicates that other teams within the I I organization 
requested that the Petitioner share her expertise, she does not provide examples of how the influence 
or impact of her work withl I extended outside the organization. 
The record supports that the Petitioner made business-related contributions tol lthat 
significantly impacted her employer. However, the record does not contain sufficient support for a 
determination that her work with I has been widely recognized outside the organization as 
a contribution that serves as "a defining trend in the industry" or as a "benchmark" for the industry at 
large. Further, while the record includes evidence that the Petitioner has been invited to participate in 
panel discussions and workshops to speak to her peers about her work withl I it does not 
contain evidence that these speaking engagements have already had a demonstrated impact or 
influence on other organizations or other business leaders in the field consistent with original 
contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from a rofessor at the University of a letter from a pro
and instructor at who co-authored the book 
stated that the authors interviewed 
the Petitioner as part of "a select group of business leaders who made a significant contribution to 
leadership in their organization and in society at large" for their book. I praises the 
Petitioner as a positive and inspirational leader, noting that she "motivated her team in to create 
a comprehensive vision to improve the quality and access to healthcare for millions of people." He 
does not offer specific support for his general claim that she has made significant contributions to 
"society at large," or indicate that the Petitioner's vision forl ]had already achieved an 
influence that extended beyond the company or had a demonstrable impact on the quality and access 
of healthcare in I The record includes an excerpt from thel Jchapter that 
discusses the Petitioner's work atl I The chapter explains the positive impact the Petitioner's 
purpose-driven, human-centered approach had on land supports a determination that she 
made business contributions to her employer that have earned her some recognition from those who 
study organizational leadership based on these principles. 
We have also considered letters that discuss the Petitioner's work with YPO and OPPI. Entrepreneur I I notes that the Petitioner has "actively brought speakers from her vast global network 
to mentor or share experiences with the Indian colleagues in YPO." He further indicates that the 
Petitioner has been invited to serve as a speaker and to run workshops for the YPO chapter 
"to share her professional experience on how to deliver results and increase productivity through more 
focus on I but he does not explain or point to evidence of how her experiences 
have been influential or impactfol in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from Grupo Maso and member of 
YPO's Board for the Latin American Region. He states that during her time as a YPO member in 
Latin America, the Petitioner "was an inspiration for her work as a remarkable leader in the 
8 
Pharmaceutical industry during very complex times in Venezuela." He states that she created "an 
extraordinary leadership model that would later become a global benchmark for I I 
praises the Petitioner's talents, notes her participation as a speaker at YPO conferences and events, 
and asserts that "YPO Venezuela, and Venezuela in general, are better today thanks to the 
contributions [the Petitioner] made during her journey in Venezuela." However I does not 
identify a specific contribution that had an impact on "Venezuela in general," or otherwise explain 
how her work with either I or with YPO in Latin America is recognized as a majorly significant 
contribution to the field of business or organizational leadership. 
A letter from OPPI's I I confirms that as part of the organization'sl,__ __ 
___ from 2018 to 2019, the Petitioner "participated in industry-led patient advocacy and 
actively engaged with the Government oflndia in addressing the healthcare challenges of the country." 
Thel I also confirms the Petitioner's previous role as I the OPPII I 
I noting she was "instrumental in creating a value-based healthcare mission for the 
Group," and "responsible to drive 30 of the OPPI member companies and bring them together to work 
towards the collective and shared vision of providing better patient outcomes with the most sustainable 
costs." He credits the Petitioner with "helping to reinforce the knowledge and thought leadership for 
OPPI in India" but does not address how her effective leadership of one of the association's 
workgroups over a one-year period resulted in contributions that have significantly impacted or 
influenced the pharmaceutical or healthcare industry or other companies in the industry. 
Letters from experts in the field that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 Here, the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has 
had in the overall field. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that media coverage regarding her lrole withl I 
_ demonstrates her impact on the industry. 8 The Petitioner's evidence included online articles 
published by Forbes.com, Dialogue, and the website of These articles are 
very similar in content and all three were authored b 
who the Petitioner identifies as one of her mentors. In the articles, ___ explains how 
the Petitioner adaptedl J mission to the unique challenges faced by 
I I noting that her role as _______ "has been transformative" for the company 
by reshaping its rewards framework, replacing traditional pharmaceutical sales metrics with self-
selected atient-im act tar ets and connectin everything to ______ In the article 
writes that "[i t is crucial that companies that want to 
follow lead do so wholly by granting the _______ to lead and change from the 
heart of the business." The articles indicate that the Petitioner's leadership style and transformation 
efforts atl l were highly effective and may serve as a useful example to other organizations. 
They also discuss the novelty of the _______ job title, noting that other organizations 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
8 While we have focused our discussion on articles that discuss the Petitioner'sl I role withl I 
we have reviewed all submitted articles. Other articles include an article regarding the Petitioner being assigned to ____ an article regarding her departure, and articles which discuss I pharmaceutical products. 
9 
may benefit from assigning such roles to senior leaders to recognize the value of ____ 
leadership. However, the published materials in the record do not state, and the record does not 
establish, that the Petitioner's I I leadership style or the novel business strategies she 
implemented at I have already had a significant impact on other organizations in the field. 
For all the reasons stated above, upon review we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 9 
As noted, the record establishes that the Petitioner recently held the position of 
and Managing Director of I and that she was the senior executive 
assigned to that entity.10 The Petitioner has submitted company information for both the I 
and itsl I subsidiary in support of her claim that the company has a distinguished reputation as a 
leading pharmaceutical company worldwide, and as the leading provider of cancer therapeutics in 
I I 
In determining that the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion, the Director noted, in 
part, that the letters she provided from her employer "did not demonstrate how the [petitioner's] role 
impacted or influenced the regional and national business industry in I ... as a whole." Based 
on this statement, it appears that the Director incorrectly applied a standard applicable to the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As noted above, a title, with matching duties, can support a determination 
that a role was "leading"; this criterion does not require a petitioner to demonstrate that their role 
impacted the industry. The Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence documenting her job title and 
duties to establish that she met this requirement as a managing director assigned tol I 
Further, we disagree with the Director's determination that the record "does not contain information 
about any awards, recognition or achievements garnered by the organization" that would demonstrate 
its distinguished reputation. The Petitioner submitted media reports s and evidence of industry awards 
sufficient to establish that the organization, including the subsidiary, enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. 
After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner met her burden to establish that she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on her most recent position as a senior 
executive with the Roche group of companies. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Merriam-Webster's online dictionary 
defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person"), 
10 The record contains evidence that the Petitioner's employment contract's with the I I and that she accepted an international assignment with 
10 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The burden is on the petitioner to provide 
appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or 
position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different countries should be 
evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply 
converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States. 11 
The Director determined that the Petitioner "submitted copies of compensation reports in a foreign 
language which are not accompanied by English language translations," and stated that such 
documents would not be considered. The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence of objective earnings data sufficient to establish that she has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in relation to other similarly employed workers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that the previously submitted 
evidence included English-language evidence demonstrating her past earnings. We agree that the 
Petitioner sufficiently documented her remuneration withl A letter from I I I Human Resources indicated that the Petitioner earned a base salary of CHF 364,332 in 
2019. This letter was accompanied by English-language compensation statements and other 
documentary evidence of her earnings in the period between 2017 and 2019. Although the evidence 
included Venezuelan tax returns that were not accompanied by English translations, the record 
includes other relevant, probative evidence of the Petitioner's past remuneration. 
The record before the Director, however, did not include relevant comparative data to support the 
Petitioner's claim that she commanded a high salary, or significantly high remuneration, in relation to 
others. As noted, persons working outside the United States should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in the country of employment, rather than converting their salary to 
U.S. dollars and submitting comparative U.S. wage data. Here, the Petitioner's salary was provided 
in Swiss francs, and she worked in both Venezuela and India during the period for which 
documentation of her earnings was provided. Rather than converting her salary to Venezuelan and/or 
Indian currency and providing compensation data from one or both of those countries, she converted 
it to U.S. dollars and provided data reflecting U.S. salaries for executives from online sources 
including Study.com and PayScale. For this reason, we agree with the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner did not provide relevant comparative wage statistics to support her claim that she has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner submits additional evidence on appeal. We note that this criterion was addressed in the 
Director's RFE and the Petitioner had an opportunity to submit supplemental evidence, including 
"geographical or position appropriate compensation surveys," prior to the denial. Where, as here, a 
Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
11 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). 12 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence did not 
establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation"). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
12 The record on appeal includes the Petitioner's Indian Income Tax Return for Assessment Year 2019-20 which shows 
her annual earnings from _________ The "gross salary" figure reported is INR80,674,391, of which 
TNR37,273,83 l was paid in salary (with the remainder categorized as "value of perquisites"). The Petitioner also provides 
comparative wage data for CEO salaries for India from three online sources and notes in her brief that one of those sources 
(PayScale) indicates that the "average salary for a CEO in India" is TNR35,947,500. We observe that the Petitioner's base 
salary, as reported on her tax return, is only slightly above this reported average salary and the evidence, even if submitted 
prior to the denial of the petition, is not sufficient to establish that she earns a "high salary" in relation to others in her field. 
Although she provided evidence of her total remuneration, the record does not contain evidence that would allow a 
comparison of her total remuneration with that of others working in the same type of position in India and therefore does 
not support a determination that her total remuneration is "significantly high." 
12 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20631438 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this 
matter de nova. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who specializes in _________ painting. Because she has 
not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; and 
• (x), Commercial Success 
The Director concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had received qualifying 
awards, that she is a member of an association that requires outstanding achievements, or that she has 
participated in qualifying judging activities, and therefore found that she did not satisfy the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(1)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv). The Director further determined that the Petitioner, in 
responding to a request for evidence (RFE), did not pursue her initial claim that she could meet the 
criterion relating to commercial success in the performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Accordingly, the Director did not address this criterion in the final decision. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she qualifies for the requested classification based on her 
receipt of nationally recognized awards, membership in national artists' associations that require 
outstanding achievements, and based on her participation as a judge for artistic exhibitions and 
competitions. She also asserts that the Director erred by failing to consider evidence of the income 
she has received from the sale of her artwork. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the Petitioner 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, 
and that each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that she had received nationally and internationally 
recognized artistic commendations and awards, as well additional awards at the "local level."2 She 
provided copies of the following certificates: 
• I I Certification issued by the National Art Museum I 3 
First Prize at the I I Arts Exhibition of the National Art Museum __ in • 
2019; 
• Second Prize at thel I Art Festival in 2016; 
First Prize at the Painting and Calligraphy • 
Association in 201 7 · 
• Third Prize at the Museum in '---------------------------' 2015; 
• Third Prize at the Art Exhibition sponsored by the __ Art Palace and 
Young Artists Association (no date provided). 
The Petitioner's letter in support of the petition briefly described the venues, exhibitions and exhibition 
sponsors referenced above without citing any sources. The initial evidence did not include supporting 
documentation that could assist in establishing that the certificates she received are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in her field. 
In the RFE, the Director requested English translations of the submitted! language award 
certificates. The RFE advised the Petitioner that she had not demonstrated that the claimed awards 
were nationally or internationally recognized and requested additional documentary evidence in 
support of her eligibility under this criterion. The Director stated that such evidence should 
demonstrate the criteria used to grant the awards, their significance (including the national or 
international recognition associated with the awards), the reputation of the organization or panel 
granting the awards, the geographic scope of the awards and any limitations on competitors, the 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, include, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards. the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the 
number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors). 
2 While we will discuss only those awards the Petitioner identified as nationally or internationally recognized awards or 
prizes, we have reviewed and considered evidence related to her "local level" awards in determining whether she meets 
the requirements of this criterion. 
3 The Petitioner indicates that this certificate was issued in 2016 and recognizes the inclusion of her painting __ I in the museum's collection as part of a young artists exhibition. The certificate does not include a date, the 
Petitioner's name, the name of the referenced painting, or the name of the exhibition. 
3 
number of awards or pnzes granted, evidence related to previous award wmners, and public 
announcements of the awards. 
The Petitioner's response included the requested English translations of the award certificates. 
However, she did not provide any additional documentary evidence related to the exhibitions or 
competitions at which she received awards or prizes in support of her claim that the awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized. The Director concluded that simply providing evidence of 
her receipt of an award certificate is insufficient to demonstrate the award' s national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner generally asserts that she established 
the significance of her awards, noting that her work "has been collected by the top-ranked National 
Art Museuml which is enough to show my personal artistic achievements." 
We agree with the Director's determination. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that she received 
the above-referenced awards, the record is insufficient to support her assertions regarding the 
prestigious nature of the exhibitions and contests at which she received those awards or her claims 
regarding the national or international recognition associated with the awards. A petitioner's 
unsupported statements normally will be insufficient to carry their burden of proof. The Petitioner did 
not support her assertions regarding her awards with relevant, probative, and credible evidence, even 
when given the opportunity to provide supplemental evidence prior to the adjudication of the 
petition. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the fact that her awarded work was exhibited in the National Art 
Museum! I should be sufficient to establish the national recognition of her award. However, 
the record contains no supporting documentation regarding the museum, the exhibition, or the 
recognition associated the specific award she received, such as evidence that the exhibition 
participants and award winners were announced in the media or otherwise recognized outside of the 
exhibition itself. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that her prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Accordingly, we conclude that she did not 
demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her membership in the __ 
Calligrapher's Association and her membership in theL_JAssociation of Women Painters. 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
In her supporting letter, the Petitioner stated that the !calligrapher's Association admits only 
the "highest level of professional painter." She indicated that new members must meet requirements 
that include obtaining the recommendation of three existing members, displaying work at prefectural­
level calligraphy and painting exhibitions that meets certain conditions, or winning a "national-level 
qualification" in a painting contest. She indicated that thel !Association of Women Painters is a 
national level group associated with th and that membership requires 
display of one's work in a national level exhibition or winning a national award competition. She did 
not provide supporting evidence from these associations supporting her claims regarding their 
respective membership requirements. 
Further, the Petitioner did not submit documentation of her membership in either of these associations. 
She submitted a membership certificate indicating that she has been a member of the I Artists 
Association" since July 2007. 5 She did not provide any information or evidence relating to this 
association or its membership requirements. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not establish that 
she is a member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding achievements 
in the field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. He 
requested: additional evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts; the sections of the associations' bylaws 
which discuss the criteria for membership; and the sections of the bylaws discussing the qualifications 
required of those who review membership applications. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a certified English translation of her membership 
certificate issued by thel I Artists' Association but did not include any additional evidence 
relating to this criterion. The Petitioner submitted a letter in which she repeated her earlier statements 
regarding membership requirements for the I I Calligraphers' Association and thel I 
Association of Women Painters, but as noted above, the record did not document her membership in 
either of these associations. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she is a member of these two associations but 
emphasized that she did not provide the associations' constitutions or by-laws or any other objective 
evidence that would demonstrate how prospective members' applications are reviewed or what 
qualifications were required for membership. As such, the Director concluded that the evidence did 
not confirm that membership in these associations is conditioned on an applicant having outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of art. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the I I Calligraphers' Association and the __ 
Women Painters Association" are "national-level artist groups inl I She submits excerpts from 
both associations' websites, accompanied by partial English translations, as well as an English 
translation of the "association charter" for the !Women Painters Association. 
5 It appears that this certificate may have been submitted as evidence of her claimed membership in the I I 
Calligrapher's Association, but she provided no explanation or evidence to establish that the I I Calligrapher's 
Association" and the Artists' Association" are the same entity. 
5 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating 
that she meets this criterion. First, the record does not contain documentary evidence of the 
Petitioner's membership in the I Calligrapher's Association or the Women Painters 
Association. Accordingly, even if we reviewed the newly submitted evidence and found it sufficient 
to establish that membership in these associations is conditioned on a prospective member's 
outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts in the field, the evidence 
would be insufficient absent documentation of the Petitioner's actual membership. Further, the 
Petitioner had an opportunity to provide evidence such as association bylaws and other evidence of 
membership requirements in response to the Director's RFE. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 
I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
The only membership the Petitioner documented was her membership in the I I Artists' 
Association. The record contains no information or supporting evidence regarding the membership 
requirements for that association and therefore does not establish that she meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on such membership. For all the reasons discussed, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which class[fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but also that they actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or 
allied field of specialization. 6 The Petitioner indicates that she has participated as a judge at two 
juried art exhibitions. She submitted the following evidence in support of her claim: 
• Employment Certificate issued to the Petitioner by !university Art School in January 
2006. The certificate addresses the Petitioner and states that the university "decided to invite 
you to serve as a member of the selection committee for the <silent theme> invitation 
exhibition." 
• Employment Certificate issued byl IArt Museum in June 2018. The certificate states 
that "[the Petitioner] is hereby invited to be the jury member of the 2018 I Contemporary 
Women's Art Research Competition." 
The Petitioner's supporting letter included some information regarding the exhibitions and exhibition 
sponsors, but she did not cite any sources for this information, nor did she provide any supporting 
documentation confirming her participation in judging activities that satisfy this criterion. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the petitioner that her narrative description of these exhibitions is not 
considered sufficient objective evidence of the nature of her judging activities. The Director also 
emphasized that "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, while the submitted 
evidence suggests that she may have been a hired employee. The Director requested additional 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
evidence to establish that she participated in judging the work of others in her field. The Petitioner's 
response included English translations of the above-referenced certificates but did not include any 
additional evidence regarding her judging activities. According, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not overcome the evidentiary deficiencies raised in the RFE. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that is customary inl I for an individual invited to participate in 
judging activities to be paid for such activities. She emphasizes that such temporary judging activities 
are distinguished from her day-to-day work and not part of her regular job duties. Finally, she states 
that she acted independently to "review every entry in the competition with [her] own artistic level 
and thinking." 
While we do not find that the Petitioner's receipt of payment would necessarily be disqualifying, the 
record lacks sufficient evidence to document the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of 
others in her field. The two "employment certificates" confirm that the Petitioner was invited to 
participate as a judge of artistic exhibitions or exhibitions. The record does not contain evidence from 
the exhibition sponsors or organizers, or other objective evidence, confirming that she accepted the 
invitation and participated in judging the exhibitions, nor is there any supporting documentation 
related to those exhibitions and the role of the judges in selecting exhibitors or prize winners. Without 
additional documentation confirming both her participation as a judge and the nature of her judging 
activities, the Petitioner has not met her burden to demonstrate that she has judging experience that 
satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
B. Summary 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did 
not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider bank transaction records 
demonstrating that she received high income from the sale of her artwork. While the Petitioner 
submitted copies of these bank transaction records prior to the denial of the petition, she did not 
previously articulate a claim that she can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which 
requires evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high 
remuneration, in relation to others in the same field. 
The Petitioner submitted three pages from a ______ Bank Statement and included 
annotations identifying four of the listed transactions as income she received from the sale of her 
paintings. The Petitioner submitted no additional evidence to corroborate these claimed sales, such as 
invoices or receipts issued to buyers, tax documentation, or other objective evidence showing the 
source of the highlighted credits to her bank account. Further, the record contains no comparative 
evidence in support of her claim that these transactions establish her "high salary or significantly high 
remuneration" in relation to other painters inl I The bank records referenced on appeal are 
therefore insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20009651 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a police officer specializing in training, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Where a petitioner meets these 
initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Id. (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner joined Brazil's! I Police in 2005. 
He began teaching courses for officers in 2008, and in 2014, he became an instructor at the I I University of the I I I inl I occasionally serving as a substitute 
division chief there. Since 2020, he has been in the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, 
studying for a master's degree in educational leadership, management, and emerging technologies at I I University inl I Florida. He has also competed in the martial art of jiu­
jitsu at the international level. After completing his degree and gaining "two or three years of 
experience working for a United States company," the Petitioner intends to establish a company that 
"will provide a variety of security training services to organizations and businesses in the United 
States" and "assist companies with their security and firearms needs." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner claims a one-time achievement in athletics s ecifically a silver medal in thel 
class at the 2020 Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation Jiu­
Jitsu Championship inl I Florida, in 2020. In the alternative, the Petitioner 
asserts, on appeal, that the medal amounts to a lesser internationally recognized award to satisfy 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Whatever the other facts and claims surrounding the award, the Petitioner has not established that his 
intended employment in the United States would be as a competitive athlete. The evidence submitted 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) must establish recognition of a petitioner's achievements in his or her 
field of expertise. But here, the Petitioner claims a major award in the field of athletics, while his 
other evidence all falls under the different broad heading of education. While we consider the totality 
of the evidence, the Petitioner seeks a conflation of different fields, with some elements of acclaim 
drawn from athletics and other from education. While the Petitioner performed well at one recent 
international jiu-jitsu competition, the record as a whole indicates that his claimed area of expertise, 
2 
and his area of intended future employment, is law enforcement training and education, rather than 
competitive martial arts. 
The Petitioner contends that martial arts are relevant to law enforcement because officers benefit from 
such training, and he states that the0encourages police officers to enter sports competitions. He 
also shows that a training course that he designed includes jiu-jitsu techniques. Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner's personal success at competitive jiu-jitsu appears to be peripheral to his stated career of 
law enforcement training. 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award in his 
intended field, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, because his high-ranking 
positions at I I amount to leading or critical roles for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria pertaining to 
prizes; participation as a judge; original contributions; and high remuneration. 
Upon consideration, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two other claimed criteria. The 
Petitioner has served on various boards and committees that included evaluative functions, and he has 
thereby participated as a judge of the work of others. The Director concluded that this activity was 
"part of his employment duties." The regulation, as currently worded, broadly applies to judging 
activity. Whether the judging indicates acclaim is a question to address in the final merits 
determination. 
The Petitioner has also shown that he received the highest level of compensation from the The 
Director discounted the evidence of compensation because it included all police officers, not just high­
ranking officials; but it remains that, according to the documentation submitted, there is no salary 
grade in the above what the Petitioner received. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and whether his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
3 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
sustained national or international acclaim, and, therefore, has not established eligibility. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has fulfilled important roles atl I and in so doing he has 
influenced law enforcement training in Brazil at a national level. The statutory threshold, however, is 
not influence, authority, or success, but sustained national or international acclaim. The evidence 
submitted does not rise to that very high standard. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has risen to positions of considerable responsibility at l __ 
including designing at least one course of instruction and evaluating others, and also writing materials 
used in police training courses. He also presented studies recommending improvements in training 
methods, such as adopting virtual reality training simulators. These activities have had some influence 
one=] training in Brazil, and the Petitioner has received recognition for his work in these areas, which 
we acknowledge by proceeding to a final merits determination. 
But the Petitioner has not shown that his activities have brought him sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that the recognition he has received for his work (such as certificates identifying specific 
contributions and activities) amounts to such acclaim. 
Regarding the Petitioner's compensation, he has shown that he has achieved the highest base pay rate 
in the and he has also shown that he receives additional remuneration for participatil g in 
educational activities. The record does not show the complete range of activities for which 
officers might receive extra pay of this nature, nor does it show how the Petitioner's total remuneration 
compares with that of the highest-paid individuals employed by the The evidence submitted 
therefore satisfies the first step in the analysis, that it generally meets the criteria of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but does not satisfy the second step of analysis that it more broadly indicates 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has represented the and at international gatherings and on other occasions, 
such as "technical visits to the I Police Department and the I I Police." 
The record does not establish how the Petitioner was selected to participate in these activities, and he 
has not shown that they resulted in, or were, themselves, the result of, sustained national or 
international acclaim. An individual can represent their organization in exchange visits of this kind 
without reaching the very top of the field of endeavor as contemplated at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In summary, while the Petitioner has documented a long and successful career with Brazil' sc=] with 
some influence over the material presented atl he has not cleared the much higher threshold 
of sustained national or international acclaim. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19499714 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner (I) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, 
and (2) had established that she seeks to enter the United States in order to continue work in the field 
of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
A one-time achievement or satisfaction of at least three lesser criteria, however, does not, in and of 
itself, establish eligibility for this classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, either a one-time achievement, 
or at least three criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Id. (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner won gold, silver, and bronze medals for the I I at national swimming 
competitions in I between 2014 and 2017, at age 14-1 7. She also competed, but did not medal, 
at international competitions such as the 20151 I Games in I When she filed 
the petition in October 2019, the Petitioner was in the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student 
at the University in I I Kentucky, studying for a bachelor's 
degree in criminal justice and law enforcement administration. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the first two criteria. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner's national titles constituted qualifying prizes or awards, and that her 
membership in thel !National Swimming Team is a qualifying membership. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two other criteria, relating to media coverage and 
leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding 
authorship of scholarly articles, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
relating to prizes and memberships. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner is the subject of two articles published inl I in 2019. A ten-question interview 
appeared in the rint and online editions ofl I A translated online 
article in states that the Petitioner, then 18 years old, secured a copyright for a 
___ training program. 
The articles are about the Petitioner, relating to her work, but she must also show that the articles appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Regarding those publications, the 
Petitioner submits a printout from www.mondotimes.com indicating that "has a circulation of nearly 
one million," and a printout from www.pressreference.com list amongl "most influential 
national news a ers." The Petitioner also submits printouts from SimilarWeb, indicating that the online 
version of has a Country Rank of 25 9, and a Category Rank of 1681 among "News and Media" 
sites. s website has a Country Rank of 1029 and a News and Media Category Rank of 4621. 
The Petitioner must establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics. 2 Raw numbers do not provide the basis for comparison, and the submitted web printouts do 
not cite sources for I claimed circulation or provide context to support the assertion thatD is 
highly influential. SimilarWeb appears to provide some further context. However, based on the 
submitted evidence, the Petitioner has not established that the newspapers qualify as major media. (The 
Petitioner does not claim that they are professional or trade publications.) It is possible that the 
publications are major media; we make no conclusive finding to the contrary. But we make no 
presumption to that effect, and the submitted materials do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show that 
th publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner does not establish that the rankings ofc=] and 
are consistent with major media. 
In terms of trade publications, the Petitioner submits printouts from the online publications SwimSwam 
and Swimming World. Some of these articles are rosters for then-upcoming meets; others show 
competition results. Each of these articles identifies dozens of swimmers, sometimes with a sentence or 
two identifying the winning or high-placing swimmers. We acknowledge the Petitioner's observation, 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
on appeal, that the Petitioner won some of these events, but nevertheless the articles are brief, overall 
descriptions of swim meets. Those that identify the Petitioner as the winner of a given competition do so 
in a single sentence, within the context of reporting the results of several other events in the same article. 
Because the articles from SwimSwam and Swimming World would not be considered published materials 
about the Petitioner, we need not consider the separate question of whether those publications are 
qualifying media. 3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner's initial claim is that she performed in a leading or critical role for the Swimming and 
Diving Team. The Petitioner further claims, in turn, that the team has a distinguished reputation because 
it "[r]anked first in its Conference and fourth in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics" 
(NAIA), and was "[ f]eatured in SwimSwam, the leading trade publication for the sport of swimming." 
The Petitioner asserts that she "played a critical role" for the team by winning several meets, for example 
"leading the team to its first relay national title." An athlete who routinely outperforms her teammates 
can be said to have a disproportionate influence on the team's standing. But the question of the 
Petitioner's role merits further discussion only if the Petitioner meets the other prong of the regulatory 
criterion by showing that theOSwimming and Diving Team has a distinguished reputation. For the 
reasons discussed below, we conclude that the team does not have such a reputation. 
Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."4 Within this required context, the Petitioner has not established thatD Swimming has a 
distinguished reputation. The program ranks highly within the confines of the NAIA, but collegiate 
swimming in the United States is not limited to NAIA member schools, and the record does not show 
how NAIA athletes rank in relation to athletes in other collegiate associations. 
A printout from College Swimming indicates that team had points as of the 2018-2019 season, 
but it provides no broader context for that figure. The printout does not identify the school with the most 
points, or the association to which that school belongs. Likewise, it does not show how D ranks among 
all collegiate swimming programs nationally. The submitted evidence does not address U.S. collegiate 
swimming programs outside the NAIA, and is, therefore, insufficient to establish thatOSwirnrning has 
a distinguished reputation among collegiate swimming programs in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not established the distinguished reputation of Swimming and Diving 
Team, further analysis of the precise nature of her role in that team would not affect the outcome of our 
decision. We therefore reserve this issue. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner has added a second claim, asserting that she also 
performed in a leading or critical role for thel !National Swimming Team. In a letter, the 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 See https://www .merriam-webster.com/ dictionary/ distinguished. 
4 
President of the I Swimming Federation states that the Petitioner was a member of that team 
when she competed at "international youth games" inl I Israel in 2015; Bulgaria in 2016; 
and I I Czech Republic in 2017. The Federation's president states that the Petitioner "played an 
important role within our Federation" and "helped us maintain our international standing," but he does 
not elaborate. For instance, the official does not say, and the record does not show, that the Petitioner 
won or placed highly at those competitions. In the absence of such results, the official has not explained 
how the Petitioner's role was critical in maintaining the Federation's international standing. In the letter, 
dated June 2019, the official states that the Petitioner "is a prime candidate for our 2020 Olympic Squad," 
but the record does not indicate that the Petitioner subsequently earned a place on that team. 
The Petitioner has not established that, or explained how, her role in thel I National Swimming 
Team was either leading or critical. Membership and participation alone are not leading or critical roles. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a leading or critical role for the team, we 
reserve the related but separate issue of whether the team has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the separate issue of the Petitioner's 
intention to continue working in her area of claimed extraordinary ability cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 5 In this matter, although the Petitioner has not satisfied three 
of the threshold criteria, we will nevertheless briefly address the issue of sustained national or 
international acclaim. We do so, in part, to establish that our conclusions are not simply the result of 
ambiguity from insufficient threshold evidence (relating, for instance, to the Petitioner's media 
coverage in 
As noted above, some of the Petitioner's documented media coverage consists of lists of competitors 
and are not about the Petitioner specifically. The record does not indicate that the Petitioner received 
any media coverage in her nativel while she was in that country, or any individual coverage 
(as distinct from team rosters and meet results) from United States media while she was in the United 
States. This apparent absence of domestic coverage does not readily indicate sustained national or 
international acclaim. We note that the record includes cover images from several issues of Swimming 
World magazine. Most of these cover images show one identified swimmer (for example, Michael 
Phelps). The Petitioner does not claim prominent, individual coverage of this kind in American 
swimming publications. Because the Petitioner competed in the United States from 2017 to 2021, 
against U.S. athletes, it is appropriate to view the Petitioner's performance and recognition in the 
context of U.S. swimming during those years. 
5 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when 
considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
The two submitted articles about the Petitioner were published by I media while she was 
studying in the United States. One of those articles focuses on her background, training regimen, and 
experiences in the United States. The other article suggests that it is unusual for a training program to 
secure a copyright. In that second article, the Petitioner asserts that her program compares favorably 
to other methods, but she provides little information about her program, and the record does not include 
any evidence that the Petitioner's training program has actually been implemented in I or 
elsewhere, and has resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner won several national titles in her teenage years, but the record does not show that she 
has sustained that level of performance, and, therefore, acclaim as required by the statute, since 201 7. 
She won, or placed highly, in a number of NAIA events while at but, as noted above, NAIA 
swimming programs represent a fraction of the overall collegiate swimming community. The 
Petitioner has not shown that she was among the highest-ranked college swimmers in the United 
States, or that her times at individual events rivaled those of the highest-ranked college swimmers in 
the nation, across associations. This is a key distinction because the acclaim must be national or 
international, rather than within one particular collegiate association ( or one regional conference 
within that association). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that she meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner must also sustain that acclaim, rather than simply establish a 
career peak at some point in the past. Here, the Petitioner has not shown continued recognition of her 
work indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or which demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19956575 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial specialist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth arrmlti-partanalysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner works at I as a senior manager. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner only fulfilled one criterion, leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for six 
additional criteria, including through the submission of comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4 ). After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought.1 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his participation on industry roundtables. The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence 
showing his service on various round tables, such as the I I Round table in 2019. In 
addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I I who indicated that the Petitioner "has also 
seen him be recruited to sit on various industry round tables," and a letter from I lwho stated 
that "[i]nvitation to such industry leading roundtables is by invitation only and is reserved for top 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanuaI/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an 
example ofadmission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associatethatrequires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based uponrecognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
executives and renowned experts in the field of and "[t]he top 20 representatives from 
the 20 top largest banks attend these roundtables." 
The Petitioner did not establish that any of the round tables require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner did not offer the specific membership or invitation requirements for any 
of the round tables to show that they require outstanding achievements and that membership is judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Instead, he submitted a letter from I who made 
broad assertions about all roundtables in general without providing specific information for each of 
the round tables in which the Petitioner participated. In addition, although I I claimed that 
roundtables are "reserved for top executives and renowned experts in the field,' I did not 
elaborate and conoborate those claims, nor did he demonstrate how being a top executive and 
renowned expe1i equates to outstanding achievements. Fmihennore, the Petitioner did not claim and 
establish that recognized national or international experts judge the roundtable candidates for 
membership. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization.2 The Petitioner claims that his "recruitment 
constitutes [the] Petitioner's meeting a simple criterion regarding being a judge of his peers as [the] 
Petitioner accepted the task of hiring an individual with nearly double his own quantitative experience 
and then proceeded to lobby to secure an above-entry-level salary for this individual." The record 
contains a letter froml I who stated that the Petitioner "voluntarily assumed the role 
of recruiter for several key positions within his department" and "has reviewed more than one hundred 
prescreened (by Human Resources Department) to isolate and bring in these recruits." 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner did not establish how recruiting 
individuals to fill vacancy positions is tantamount to participating as a judge of the work of others. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his designation "as a judge," nor did he show that he 
actually judged the work of others in the same or similar field of specialization. In addition, the 
evidence in the form of a letter from I I does not contain specific information detailing whom, 
when, and what work he judged. Without probative documentation, his evidence regarding his 
recruitment and hiring is inadequate to satisfy this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
2 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarzv, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts: 
[He] is confirmed by CFOs and Treasurers a this current employer and likewise at other 
global institutions to have made major contributions to the industry. These 
contributions include his I rubric, his best practices, his 
participation in annual industry roundtables, [and] his contribution to wording of 
regulations whose wording was adopted in toto into the existing regulations since the 
onset of the pandemic. 
In support of his claims, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that generally praise his work 
for his employers but do not show that he has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
For instance,I !discussed the Petitioner's.__ ___________ and credited the 
Petitioner "with mobilizing the bank's I I personnel long before the government and countless 
other banks had at the beginning of the pandemic" and his "algorithm allowed0 to thrive during 
COVID 19 by becoming a leadin East Coast lender in Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans to 
small business." Similarly stated that the Petitioner "was recruited specifically to 
head his own risk assessment team at Bank to perform the same task that he had masterfully 
performed for both an ' Likewise[ indicated that the Petitioner 
"was s ecificall chosen over all other members of the I team experts -including myself 
-at to analyze and provide counsel to mitigate! !deficiencies in the 
existing system." The letters, however, do not show the influence of the Petitioner's work 
beyond Bank or former employers to reflect original contributions of major significance in the 
overall field. 4 Here, the Petitioner's contributions to his employers are more applicable to the leading 
or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied. 
Moreover,! lstated that "the Service may be interested in knowing that on May 21, 2021 
Federal Reserve Board ("Fed") directly contacted. , , in a conference call to congratulateLJ Bank for 
our being best in class and issued its top rating for management" and "informed us our 
best practices are being shared with other Banks across the industry as the new standard for Best 
Practices." However, the Petitioner filed the petition in November 2020. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing 
and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1). In addition, I did not further 
elaborate and explain the "best practices" in which he was referring to in his letter. Further, the 
3 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2(8)(2) (providing that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact a lone is not sufficientto establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaiav. Beers,4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a who le). 
4 
Petitioner did not provide evidence from the Federal Reserve Board showing that it "shared with other 
Banks across the industry as the new standard for Best Practices." 
In addition, as discussed previously, I stated that the Petitioner "has also seen him be recruited 
to sit on various industry round tables." I !however, did not further elaborate and explain the 
significance of the Petitioner's participation or service on the various industry roundtables. Moreover, 
I I did not indicate, for example, whether any of the Petitioner's roundtable discussions resulted 
in any majorly significant contributions in the overall field rather than limited to the roundtables. 
Further, I _ indicated that the Petitioner's "suggestions on implementation of I I I rule is trusted and has frequently been adopted in toto by the Fed." ( emphasis in 
original). Again, I did not expound on his claims. He did not identify the Petitioner's specific 
suggestions, nor did the Petitioner reference any supp01iing evidence showing that those suggestions 
have been implemented in the rule, let alone resulted in original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires his "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media."7 As defined in the academic arena, 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 8 For other 
fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include 
all persons having profound knowledge of a field. 9 The Petitioner asserts to meet this criterion based 
on "the publication of an annual report relied on by professionals in both this nation's government and 
by investors both individual and institutional, for asset allocation and compliance issues." 
5 Sec 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. Sec also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatmy 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
origina I contributions of majorsignificancein the field). 
7 See 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
5 
The Petitioner initiall submitted three business documents authored b him on behalf of I Bank: 
' and' 
' In res onse to the Director's RFE, he provided an 
email from him directing the posting of the on website.10 
While the documents appear to be written for learned persons and thus qualify as scholarly articles, 11 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the papers were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 12 The Petitioner did not show where or if the I 
I I documents were published, let alone published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. As it relates to the liquidity disclosure document, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence establishing that website qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Simply posting a document on a company's website, as well as 
authoring material without publication or posting, is insufficient to meet this criterion without 
evidence showing the website's standing or status as a major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 13 The Petitioner initially provided 
evidence of his annual salary of $152,000, including other forms of compensation including one time 
awards, bonuses, and health and wellness incentives. In addition, the Petitioner submitted comparative 
average salary data from a range of salary sources, such as $126,000 (unidentified source), $118,000 
(PayScale with $161,000 in the 90th percentile), and $109,000 (Zip Recruiter with $177,000 classified 
as high). In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner included a letter froml I who 
claimed that the Petitioner "would easily command a BASE SALARY of $250,000 per annum." 
Further, he presented comparative average salary fromZipRecruiter ($85,000 with a $135,000 in the 
95th percentile) and Salary.com ($99,000 with $131,000 in the 90th percentile). 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he commanded a salary above the average of others in his field; 
however, his salary falls short of earning a high one. Again, the Petitioner presented data containing 
a range of salary figures, as low as $85,000 to as high as $177,000. In fact, the record also contains 
salaries from sample companies, such as PayPal ($177,000), E*Trade Financial ($155,000), MPG 
Operations ($169,000), and CLS Group ($162,000), indicating higher salaries than the Petitioner. 
While the regulation does not require the Petitioner to show that he earned the highest salary, the 
record does not reflect that he commands a high salary when compared to other senior managers in 
10 The Petitioner also offered evidence of another for the three months ended on 
March 31, 2021. However, eligibility must be established at time of filing. Sec 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
11 The indicated that the audience distribution included: bank executives, 
liquidity risk professionals, credit risk professionals, operational risk professionals, and interest rate risk professionals. 
12 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2(B)(2) (providing that evidence ofprofessionalormajortrade publications or 
in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and the in tended audience). 
13 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
6 
his field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grims on v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Mun iv. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner did not show that the comparison of average and median 
salaries reflects that he commanded a high salary in relation to other senior managers in his field. 
Moreover, while I I asserted the salary the Petitioner ''would easily command," this 
regulatory criterion that the individual "has commanded," reflecting actual salaries rather than 
projected or estimated salaries. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the pe1forming arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion because his "corroborating evidence as to the 
commercial success of [his] clients was documented when they followed his advice, defying the 
industry norm, and spun off a less profitable and regulatorily more burdensome retail unit." In order 
to fulfill this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect 
an individual's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 14 In this case, the Petitioner is not a performing artist, such as a singer or actor. Rather, the 
Petitioner is al lsenior manager at a bank. Thus, the Petitioner does not qualify for this 
criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit evidence of his "commercial successes" in the form 
of "box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner claims that he is "allowed to submit comparable evidence as per the regulations at 
204.5(h)(5) is the fact that the regulation does not require a showing that [he] demonstrate that his 
industry or occupation' does not have standards that readily apply."' 15 On the contrary, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), rather than C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), addresses comparable evidence and allows 
for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation.16 A petitioner 
should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set 
14 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
15 The Petitioner also claims eligibility under the "Mentor" criterion. However, the regulation at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) does not contain a criterion specifically addressing mentors. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner made 
similar assertions pertaining to satisfying criteria regarding"[s]ervingas a mentoroutside the scope ofhis normal course 
ofbusiness" and "[r]eputation in the field of endeavor." Ifhe wanted to make these claims under any of the ten criteria, 
the Petitioner did not articulate his intentions andidentifythe appropriate criteria. 
16 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
7 
forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that 
required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).17 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. The 
fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that satisfies at least three or could not establish 
eligibility is not evidence that a !senior manager could not do so. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the criteria do not apply to his occupation. Fmihem1ore, the Petitioner did not show 
why the other criteria not claimed, such as the awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), would not be applicable to al I senior manager 
or other financial position. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish why his evidence should then 
be considered as comparable evidence under the same criteria that he claimed to meet. In addition, 
the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly comparable" to the criteria listed in the 
regulation. 18 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he qualifies for additional criteria through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not supp01i a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,");Hamalv. Dep 'tofHomeland Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c ]omis have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one 
of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
17Id. 
18 See6 USCJSPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
8 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has served in a leading or critical 
role, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon 
in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19609635 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a photographer who has displayed his work at exhibits in Venezuela, France, and the 
United States. He states that he wishes to continue to work as a photographer in the United States, 
and intends to operate a photo consulting business in Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, the display of his work at artistic exhibitions, and his service as a judge of the 
work of other photographers. However, the Director then concluded that the totality of the evidence 
did not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of photographers at the top of the 
field, and thus was not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence in the 
record in making his determination. After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion regarding the Petitioner's satisfaction of three of the evidentiary criteria, and will therefore 
tum to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
2 
As noted above, the Petitioner submitted evidence that his photographs have been displayed at several 
artistic exhibitions. The record shows that his work has been shown at several solo and group 
exhibitions in Venezuela, including the I Exhibition at the I I Gallery in in 
2014. His work has continued to be displayed in the United States at several exhibitions inl I 
Florida, such asl I's show in 2015 and the American Society of Media 
Photographers (ASMP) juried exhibition in 2016. The record also demonstrates that his work has 
been displayed by the French Alliance Foundation in Paris. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that several of these exhibitions included photographs from only the 
top artists in the field, which he asserts places him among that group. For instance, he states that the I I exhibition, which has displayed his work on multiple occasions, "is arguably the most 
important art show in the United States." The Petitioner contends that the exhibiting galleries at the 
exhibition are among the world's most respected art dealers, and thus his inclusion at this event 
evidences his stature as a leading photographer and his sustained acclaim. He also highlights the 
showcasing of his work at the ASMP's juried exhibition in 2016. According to the Petitioner, ASMP 
is "is a premier trade association for the world's most respected photographers." However, we note 
that the record does not include information about these exhibitions and organizations from 
independent sources, and thus lacks evidence to show that they are considered to be prestigious by the 
international photography community. This is also the case with the French Alliance Foundation and 
some of the other U.S. and Venezuelan exhibitions in which the Petitioner participated. We further 
note that the record does not include evidence of media attention or discussion of his work beyond 
that which has already been discussed. As constituted, the record lacks sufficient evidence to establish 
that the inclusion of his work in these exhibitions over several years is indicative of him being among 
the small percentage of photographers at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner also received several awards for his work. At the 2013 I international 
photo competition, the Petitioner was the winner in the I I subdivision, and this accolade 
permitted him to participate in the international competition held in where he was one of 19 
finalists selected from artists representing more than 100 cities worldwide. While we acknowledge 
that the Petitioner won thd I subdivision of the competition, the number of awards given at the 
final event and the fact that the award received by the Petitioner is not the top award at the event 
indicates that he is not one of the small percentage of photographers at the top of his field on a national 
or international scale.1 Although the Petitioner's receipt of the local I I award demonstrates 
some level of recognition, he did not receive the highest award at this event, and the record does not 
include evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he was one of the I !contestants" in a 2013 
photography contest held by the Metropolitan Mayor's Officel I entitled ______ 
According to an article published in El Universal, the competition was intended to provide 
photographers with an opportunity to show their view of the city from their camera's point of view. 
Although the article indicated that the winners were invited to organize a photo content for the 
anniversary of I there is little to no information regarding the details of the contest, such as the 
number of participants in the contest, whether it was open to both professional and amateur 
1 The record reflect that the "top winner" was awarded a one-week stay in with a solo exhibition at the __ 
Gallery, and the top five photographers, including the "top winner," received a one-year magazine subscription. 
3 
photographers, or the criteria used in selecting the winners. It is unclear whether the winners were 
chosen based upon an independent evaluation of the quality or artistic value of the candidate's work, 
or simply for participating. We cannot conclude that being one of 12 winners of this local contest 
would automatically earn a professional photographer sustained national acclaim and a place among 
the small percentage at the top of the field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered material from several organizations relating to him 
and his work. Although two notable articles covered him and discussed his work, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international 
acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner served as a judge for various photo exhibitions and 
contests. After his success in thel I competition, the Petitioner was selected to serve 
as a juror for the 2013 _______ _.competition hosted by the French Alliance Foundation 
inl I According to a letter from the organization's general director, the Petitioner was selected 
as a juror for this event based on his receipt of thel I subdivision award the previous ear. The 
Petitioner also submitted documentation demonstrating that he served as a juror for the 
I I Show, hosted by Curator's Voice Art Projects (CVAP) inl I in ________ 
2017. The Petitioner submitted two letters from the organization's director thanking the Petitioner for 
his service and expertise, as well as an excerpt from CVAP's website which provided a brief overview 
of the organization. This evidence shows that the Petitioner has achieved some level of recognition 
from the French Alliance Foundation and CVAP. However, it does not establish that these exhibitions 
are prestigious or that selection as a juror for these exhibitions is reserved for those photographers at 
the top of the field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence 
that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in his field, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
As noted above, in order to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, the Petitioner 
must show that he has been the subject of sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the top of his field, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The Petitioner received an award for his 
photographs in the subdivision of I I in 2012 and was a finalist in the 
international portion of that competition shortly thereafter. The record also demonstrates that he was I !winners in a local competition the following year. However, while these awards 
indicate he was receiving acclaim for this work at a national level, it does not show that these awards 
were considered to be prestigious, or that his receipt of them placed him among top photographers. 
The Petitioner's participation as a judge of other photographer's work at three exhibitions between 
2013 and 201 7 demonstrates that his expertise as a photographer had begun to be recognized. 
Thereafter, the attention given to his artistic displays, and in particular to the display of the Petitioner's 
collections at thel I exhibitions, illustrates a growing level of appreciation and notice of his 
work in the field of photography, and the inclusion of his work at these exhibitions is a significant 
achievement and reflects his success in his field. However, the evidence does not establish, for 
example, that the many photographs exhibited at each exhibition are the work of nationally or 
internationally acclaimed artists at the top of their field, or that all artists whose work is included 
gamer such acclaim. The record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing him from others 
4 
in the field and does not demonstrate that his achievements are at a level that places him among the 
small percentage at the top of the field. Nor does the evidence establish that he has enjoyed sustained 
acclaim at the national or international level, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, 
the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is 
adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 
immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data 
Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. 
Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the 
office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court 
of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition 
on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, 
although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his standing among his peers in the field of 
photography, it does not establish that he is yet one of that small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19588723 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 07, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer athlete and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification 
through evidence of a one time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or satisfying 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner submits a 
brief and additional evidence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a soccer athlete and youth soccer coach who states that he intends to work in this area 
in the United States. 1 He holds educational and coaching credentials from the United Kingdom and 
United States, and has worked as a youth soccer coach in both countries. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he applied for classification in the E21 category as either a 
member of the professions holding an advanced degree, or as a noncitizen of exceptional ability, and 
that he also requested a national interest waiver (NIW) of the labor certification requirement. He 
therefore asserts that the Director adjudicated his petition as seeking classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability in error. 
Upon review of the petition, the Petitioner clearly marked box 1.a in Part 2 of Form I-140, indicating 
that the petition was filed for a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. He did not mark box l .h, which 
would have indicated that he was applying for an NIW as a member of the professions holding an 
advanced degree or a noncitizen of exceptional ability. A petitioner may not make material changes 
to a petition that has already been filed to make an apparently deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. See Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). In addition, as the 
Director issued his decision based upon the Petitioner's request for classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability, our review of his decision is limited to that classification.2 
1 The Petitioner also states on appeal that in the alternative he would like to work in the United States in the field of 
psychology. As he has not previously made this claim or submitted evidence in support of it, we will not consider it on 
appeal. 
2 We further note that even ifwe were to consider the Petitioner's eligibility for the E21 classification rather than for the 
classification he requested, at no point in these proceedings has he described or established how the evidence in the record 
shows that he qualifies as either a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, or as a noncitizen of exceptional 
ability by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(ii) and possessing a degree of 
expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered in sciences, arts or business. He has further not described or 
established his eligibility for an NIW under the three prongs of the framework set forth in Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N 
Dec. 884 (AAO 2016 ). As noted above, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. If the 
Petitioner wishes to request an NIW under the E2 l classification, he may file a new petition. 
2 
We further note that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence on appeal, including additional 
reference letters and a copy his bachelor's degree diploma. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). As such, we will 
not consider this evidence in our decision. 
The Petitioner's brief also incorporates text that he states was obtained from various websites, and 
includes statements about each of the previously submitted documents. Many of these statements are 
conclusory in nature and repeat the language of the evidentiary criteria, and in some cases borrow 
language from several criteria in the same sentence. While we will give these statements due 
consideration, as stated above the INA requires that recognition of achievement in a petitioner's field 
be established through "extensive documentation." Further, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the following documentation serves as evidence of his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award: 
• Certificates for Youth Award Modules 1, 2 and 3 from The Football Association (FA), as well 
as completion of The FA Youth Award training program in 2013; and 
• Certificate for completion of the FA B Coaching License (UEF AB Diploma) training program. 
In his brief, the Petitioner refers to text "sourced by Wikipedia & www.thefa.com" and states that the 
FA is a major internationally recognized organization. While we will take administrative notice of the 
FA' s reputation and membership in international soccer organizations, it is the recognition of the 
award itself which must be established. 
We initially note that according to the record, as well as information from the FA' s website, the Youth 
Award training program prepares individuals to coach youth soccer at the elite level. Generally, 
certifications such as these which represent completion of a training program are not considered to be 
awards, and the Petitioner has not provided documentation showing that his receipt of these 
certifications should be construed as one-time achievements. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
3 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
Here, while the Petitioner appears to interpret "recognition" in terms of whether other soccer 
organizations accept these as qualifying youth coaching credentials, the examples discussed above, 
and the plain language of the statute, show that this is not the appropriate standard. Although neither 
the statute nor the regulations define "one-time achievement," the fact that the alternative means of 
meeting the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification necessitates meeting three of the ten 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), one of which relates to "lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards," puts this requirement into proper perspective. The record lacks documentation 
to show that these certificates, considered either individually or as a whole, evidence recognition of 
the Petitioner's national or international recognition as a soccer player and coach to the extent that no 
further evidence is needed to meet the classification's initial evidence requirement. 
The Petitioner claims on appeal that in order to receive these certificates, prospective coaches must 
"show that they are one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of that field of endeavour 
and demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim ... " However, he does not submit 
documentary evidence of the requirements for entry into or completion of this training, or evidence 
that others who completed this training were judged to be at the top of the field of soccer coaching at 
the time. In addition, as previously noted, simply repeating the language of the statute and regulations 
is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof. 
As the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to establish that his coaching credentials are 
major, internationally recognized awards, we will tum to whether, in the alternative, he meets three of 
the evidentiary criteria. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to five of these criteria. 3 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
he has not met the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification by meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
3 On appeal, the Petitioner did not renew his claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) regarding original 
contributions of major significance to the field. 
4 
In order to meet this criteria, a noncitizen must show that they are a member in an association in their 
field, that this association requires outstanding achievements of their members, and that this 
requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner claims this 
criterion on the basis of the coach training certificates awarded by the FA, which are also recognized 
by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA). He refers to the Unique FA Number (FAN) 
included on all four of the certificates as evidence of his membership in the FA. The Petitioner asserts 
that in order to receive the certification, and thus membership in the FA, he was required "to attend 
various trainings and showcases held by and judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields." However, we note that the FAN was assigned, at the latest, upon 
completion of the first training module, and that therefore the Petitioner's membership was not 
predicated on his completion of the training course. More importantly, the Petitioner has not submitted 
documentary evidence of the requirements for membership in the FA, or for entry into or completion 
of the Youth Award training program which he asserts forms the basis of his membership. In addition, 
while he has submitted biographies of the individuals whose names appear at the bottom of these 
certificates, he has not submitted documentary evidence showing that they had any role in judging his 
achievements as a condition of his membership into the FA. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his statements regarding his qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner refers to his coaching 
certifications, stating that they allow him "to participate on a panel or as a judge of the work of others." 
While he has submitted letters confirming that he has acted as a coach for youth soccer teams in the 
United Kingdom and the United States, he has not provided evidence of instances of his participation 
as a judge of other soccer athletes or coaches. As such, he has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that their work in the field has been displayed, and 
that the display took place at an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature. Here, the Petitioner 
has claimed this criterion in response to the Director's RFE and again on appeal, but in both cases he 
has only repeated the language of this criterion. He has not specified a particular exhibition or 
showcase by name or date of the event, nor has he described the nature of his work which was 
displayed. In addition, as the Petitioner's field is soccer playing and coaching, it is his burden to 
establish that any exhibition or showcase at which his work was displayed was artistic in nature, as 
opposed to athletic or commercial. He has not submitted documentary evidence of any display of his 
work which might qualify under this criterion. As such, he has not shown that he meets this criterion. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria on appeal, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these 
additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Therefore, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record lacks the extensive documentation required, and does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19408161 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 07, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least 
three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal.1 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been employed since 2015 as the chief executive officer and 
owner of a commercial and residential cleaning service, 
Louisiana . The Petitioner received a bachelor's degree in management from ____ 
University ! in 2018. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming to meet five criteria, relating 
to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations, published 
materials in major media, judging the work of others, and leading or critical role. After reviewing all 
the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based upon his receipt of the I 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award at the 2014 !Championship at I In order 
to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner provided a photograph showing the Petitioner's receipt of the .... I ____ 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award's $2,000 prize for his proposed business model, the International 
Academic and Professional Network, an enterprise to promote U.S. higher education "in African 
developing countries by connecting prospective international students to universities in the United 
States." The press release advertising the 2014 Championship indicates 
that six teams competed in the championship, "presenting their ideas to fellow students as well as 
faculty, staff, and judges," and that the Petitioner was the sole team member for his proposed business 
model. In addition to the $2,000 prize of the I !Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, funded by 
thel J the championship also awarded a total of $6,000, funded byl Ito the 
first, second, and third place teams of thd I Championship competition . The 
press release indicates that the teams were judged "on written decks, oral presentation , and business 
feasibility ," and that the judges for the 2014 championship included a visiting associate professor in I I business school, the president of the I I a partner at I and an 
executive for the I Economic Partnership . 
In two lettersJ I coordinator of entrepreneurial studies at and director of the I !championship, confirms that the Petitioner won the 20141 I 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, and states that the _______ "serves local, regional, 
national and international business interests in a wide range of markets and industries. " She also 
indicates that the criteria for the award are that "the competitor must exhibit evidence during their oral 
presentation that they are the most likely competitor to follow through with their planning for building 
a startup team and meeting milestones for beginnin a new venture and has excellence in their field." 
She further provides the names of several other -ast winners of the award and 
a brief description of their winning startups. In two letters, ___ director Technolo 
Business Development Center, also confirms that the Petitioner won the 2014 the 2014 Entrepreneurial Spirit Award and corresponding cash prize presented b which she 
describes as "one of the largest and most respected! lin the United States."
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not establish that the 2014 ____ 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence. Although the I I Spirit Award may be recognized at the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that the I I award, which serves "to recognize the team with the most 
entrepreneurial spirit" and has a relatively small number of entrants, qualifies as a prize or award for 
excellence in the field. While the award materials indicate thatl I is a large the 
record does not contain evidence establishing that the award is recognized nationally or internationally 
for excellence in the field beyond the awarding entity. Such an honor given to students inherently 
excludes established experts and professionals from consideration and appears to be further restricted to of one of one institution etitioner, therefore, has not established that his prize in a 
contest limited to on was a nationally or internationally recognized award. In 
addition, an award limited to participants withl I may be a relevant factor in determining 
whether the overall field acknowledges it for excellence. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Further, we note that the record contains evidence that in January 2020 the Petitioner received the 
Young Business Leader of the year award from the I I Chamber of Commerce. 
Moreover, on appeal the Petitioner submits a copy of a certificate of I I 
3 
Recognition he received in June 2021 from __________ "in recognition of 
outstanding and invaluable service to the community ." This evidence, however, occurred after the 
initial filing of the petition on May 21, 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, he cannot establish his eligibility under 
this criterion based on additional awards he received in 2020 and 2021, even ifwe were to determine 
that they otherwise satisfy all elements of this evidentiary criterion. Accordingly, we will not consider 
this evidence. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the _____ 
Chamber of Commerce I I In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 In denying the 
petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner indicated membership withl I and provided two letters from 
President and CEO of confirming the Petitioner's membership in the organization since 2017 
as a business owner. According to the provided bylaws of the organization dated August 2019, the 
is organized for the purpose of "advancing the economic, industrial professional , cultural, and 
civic welfare of I and its trade area." The bylaws also provide that members 
may hold both Individual and Business membership and that Individual membership may be accepted 
with a referral from another member in good standing. Thel I bylaws further state, in pertinent 
part, as follows: 
Any reputable person, firm, corporation, partnership, or estate, in sympathy with the 
purpose of the organization, shall be able to apply for active membership . All 
applications for membership shall be in writing and submitted on the form provided by 
the Chamber. Applications for membership shall be submitted to the President and 
Board of Directors for approval. The Board of Directors shall have the right to accept 
or reject any application for membership for any reason whatsoever. ... An affirmative 
vote of the majority of the Board of Directors shall be required to approve any 
application for membership presented to the committee .... 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research) . 
4 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that thel I requirements rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, based on the presented 
documentation, any individual or business "in sympathy with the purpose of the organization" may 
apply for and be granted membership in I which criterion, in-and-of-itself: the Petitioner did not 
show is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
thatl I requires that an applicant has made outstanding achievements in the field. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements for membership with . 5
____ also indicates that the Petitioner has served as a Chamber Ambassador withl I since 
201 7, which she describes as "a prestigious group of chamber members who volunteer their time to 
actively serve the I I Chamber of Commerce as well as the I business 
community." She states that to become an ambassador each member is required to apply, and"[ o ]nee 
the selection criteria are met, the candidate is placed on a 60-day probation period before his admission 
to the ambassadors group."I does not detail or explain the required selection criteria for 
a Chamber Ambassador, nor does the record, including th bylaws, otherwise contain any I 
information about such criteria. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the 
requirements for Chamber Ambassador rise to the level of outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts, consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, I states that the Petitioner was appointed to thel I board of directors in 
October 2019 and indicates the requirements to qualify for board membership. As noted, the Petitioner 
must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). As he filed his petition 
in May 2019, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his board membership withl I occurred prior 
to or at the time of his initial filing. Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 6 The record contains several articles pertaining to the Petitioner. An article from 
lastartupprize. com dated 2014 mentions that the Petitioner was one of several I I who gave 
short investor pitches at the qualifying round of the inaugural! I Startup Prize competition. 
The Petitioner also provided an item dated 2016 from the I newspaper The Tech Talk titled I I Further, a listing in the print publication Chamber 
Connection dated March 2019 with an accompanying photograph relate the ribbon-cutting ceremony 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien must show 
that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or international experts as 
having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 
for the downtown l __ location of the Petitioner's cleaning business, and mention him by name as 
the owner. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that the aforementioned articles from lastartupprize.com, 
The Tech Talk, and Chamber Connection reflect published material about him relating to his work. 
Specifically, the lastartupprize.com article is about the qualifying round of the inaugural I 
Startup Prize competition with the Petitioner mentioned as a participant. The The Tech Talk article provides the Petit the Petitioner's description ofl I 
rather than material about him. The Chamber Connection article briefly mentions the 
opening of the I I location of the Petitioner's cleaning business. Articles that are not 
about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). Moreover, the Chamber Connection article did not demonstrate the author of the 
article. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner did submit two articles that are about him relating to his work in the field. An article 
dated March 2019 from the print publication! Daily Leader titled I I ______ is about the Petitioner's background as an I and his work as the 
owner of a cleaning services business. An interview of the Petitioner dated February 2018 from the 
print publication Chamber Connection is about him, relatin to his "personal philosophy" and 
background and how he benefits from his membership in the The Petitioner, however, did not 
submit comparative circulation or distribution data for the Daily Leader or Chamber 
Connection to support his claim that he and his work have been featured in major media and/or major 
trade publications. 7 The Petitioner also did not demonstrate the author of the Chamber Connection 
article. As noted, the inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, the record contains an article authored by the Petitioner and dated August 2018 titled I I As noted by the Director, as the article does not 
contain any proof of publication, it does not meet the plain language of this criterion, which requires 
published materials about the Petitioner and his work in the field published in professional or other 
major trade publications or other major media. 
Further, we note that the record contains an article dated 2020 published irj I Life Magazine that 
quotes the Petitioner and a screenshot of a video posted on myarklamiss.com by in in 
February 2020 from thel which the Petitioner claimed reflected an 
interview of him. Moreover, on appeal the Petitioner provided an advertisement for his company 
dated 2021 froml Life Magazine. As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As he filed his petition in May 2019, the Petitioner 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2 appendix (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 
did not demonstrate that this evidence occurred prior to or at the time of his initial filing. Accordingly, 
we will not consider this evidence. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, memberships, and published 
material. Although he submits evidence for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to judging at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach 
these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19825526 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 8, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a digital product and business manager in the mobile communications industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner (1) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria; (2) seeks 
to enter the United States to continue working in her area of expertise; and (3) will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner works in the mobile communications industry. The Petitioner seeks employment as a 
multi-access edge computing digital technology and product manager. She did not identify a 
prospective or intended employer on the petition form. In India, she worked forl lfrom 2001 
to 2004, and for lfrom 2004 to 2005. From 2005 to 2019, she worked for I land affiliated companies in India, Germany, and the United States, most recently for of 
America from 2016 to 2019, first as head of strategy and business development/business product 
management, and then as a senior product manager. She is the author of a U.S. patent, published in 
2019, for what she describes as I I I The Petitioner is in the United Kingdom. At the time she filed the petition in March 2021, 
she was studying for a master's degree at I and had recently accepted an offer 
of employment as a "Principle [sic] Product Manager" for l also in London. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to original contributions of 
major significance; leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations or establishments; and high 
remuneration for services. The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all three claimed criteria. Because the 
Petitioner only claims to have satisfied three of the ten regulatory criteria, the petition cannot proceed to 
a final merits determination unless she meets all three. Therefore, an adverse determination regarding 
any one of the criteria is sufficient to determine the outcome of the appeal. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which calls for evidence that the petitioner has commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
2 
In claiming a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, the Petitioner does not 
submit any evidence of past salaries or remuneration paid to her. Instead, the Petitioner states that she 
"has received multiple global offers from industry giants,I I l andl I" The 
Petitioner submits a table of figures in U.S. dollars and U.K. pounds, stating that they represent the 
compensation packages accompanying those offers. The table, reproduced below, is incorporated into 
a letter dated March 5, 2021: 
Position I I Product Line Senior Strategy and Principal Product 
offered Manager,! I Business Development Manager/Director, 
Manager I I I 
Currency US$ UK£ US$ UK£ US$ UK£ 
Base salary 167,000 123,000 206,021 150,960 180,300 132,115 
Bonus 26,500 19,500 63,870 46,800 63,870 49,570 
Equity 48,125 35,000 20,000 14,650 262,500 192,300 
Total 241,625 177,500 289,891 212,410 506,670 373,985 
The Petitioner's initial submission did not include documentary evidence to support the figures 
claimed above. When the Director requested such evidence, the Petitioner responded by documenting 
two offers from and that do not match what the Petitioner previously claimed. The 
Petitioner submitted no documentat10n regarding I Is claimed offer. 
In a January 29, 2021 message,D offered the Petitioner a position as a "Senior Technical Sales 
Manager Network Solutions & Telecom Segment," with the following "Compensation Illustration": 
Base pay: 
Commission Target (25%): 
Quarterly Profit Bonus Estimate : 
Base + Bonus Targets: 
Hire Bonus: 
Stock Grant (vested over 3 years): £144,000 
36,000 
10,800 
190,800 
20,000 
60,000 (US$197,586 at 1/29/2021 exchange rate1) 
offered the Petitioner a position as "Principle [sic] Product Manager" on February 9, 2021; 
the Petitioner accepted the job offer, with a signature dated February 12, 2021. The job offer letter 
describes the following compensation package: 
Base salary: 
On-hire stock award: 
Bonus scheme: £123,715 (US$170,671 at 2/9/2021 exchange rate2) 
$450,0003 
Eligibility for a performance-based bonus of up to 40% of salary 
1 See https://www.xe.com/currencyt ables/?from=GBP&date =202 l-O l-29#table-section . 
2 See https://www .xe.com/currencytables /?from=GBP &date=202 l -02-09#tab le-section. 
3 The offer letter does not make clear the timing of distribution of the award. The 202 J annual report notes, 
"Stock awards entitle the holder to receive shares of lcommon stock as the award vests. Stock awards generally 
vest over a service period of four years or five years." See https://wwwl !com/inve stor/reports/ar2 l/index.html. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts: "The total of each remuneration package offered to [her] is well above the 
national average salary as provided by the Willis Towers Watson wage survey report."4 That report 
shows the following figures (in U.S. dollars) for "Strategic Planning/Corporate DevelopmentlDigital 
StrategylGroup Manager (Supervisory/Management)": 
Percentile Average 10th 25th 50th 75th 90th 
Base Salary 181,893 155,146 160,170 175,192 189,900 241,000 
Actual Performance Bonus 43,344 11,016 18,588 31,856 64,179 106,765 
Actual Total Annual Incentives 44,759 11,097 20,564 36,018 66,890 106,181 
Actual Total Annual Compensation 221,474 177,670 191,136 210,245 235,000 306,965 
Target Total Annual Compensation5 200,747 160,086 176,871 202,843 227,500 240,954 
We note that the base salary for the I I position the Petitioner accepted is below the average 
base salary shown in the survey report, and the 90th percentile wages reflect a substantially higher base 
salary. Even then, the survey report is insufficient to show how the Petitioner's compensation stands 
in relation to others in the field, for two key reasons. First, the survey report is designated "United 
States," with no indication that any data pertains to positions in the United Kingdom. 6 Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established the survey's applicability to the two U.K. job offers she has documented. 
Second, the compensation packages from and I I include equity elements that are not 
reflected in the submitted data from the survey report. Explanatory text in the survey report differentiates 
between "Annual Incentives" and "Long-Term Incentives." The latter category includes stock-and share­
related benefits such as "Stock Options" and "Performance Shares," which appear to amount to equity. 
The Petitioner did not submit any survey data regarding these "Long-Term Incentives." Thus, the 
comparative survey figures that the Petitioner has provided appear to be incomplete relative to the data 
she provided regarding her claimed job offers. As such, the figures provided do not allow a full 
comparison, because the Petitioner listed stock as part of her offered compensation. Also, it is unclear 
how to interpret the Petitioner's stock award. If the award vests over the course of multiple years, then 
the award would appear to be less than the annual amounts of equity on the offers initially submitted. The 
record does not contain sufficient information on the timing of the award and how it factors into her 
annual compensation. Without such evidence, we cannot sufficiently determine whether the Petitioner's 
total remuneration is high in relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "The total of each remuneration package offered to [the Petitioner] 
is well above the national average salary as provided by the Willis Towers Watson wage survey 
report," but the "total ... remuneration package" includes a number of elements that do not count as 
"salary, and the elements submitted do not appear to necessarily correspond to the elements in the 
chart. Therefore, such a comparison would not be accurate. 
4 The full title of the report is United States I 2020 General Industry Middle Management, Professional and Services Survey 
Report I Compensation Data. 
5 The submitted materials do not explain the difference between 'Target" and "Actual" numbers. 
6 Persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be 
considered high in the United States. 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix. 
4 
For the above reasons, the incomplete U.S. compensation figures do not show that the Petitioner's 
U.K. compensation offers meet the requirements for this criterion. 
We must also note that the base salaries in the job offer documents are lower than the figures the 
Petitioner initially claimed. Both offers predated March 2021, when the Petitioner filed the petition; 
the Petitioner had actually accepted one of those offers in early February 2021, several weeks before 
the filing date. The Petitioner does not explain why the terms described in the March 2021 filing did 
not match the actual job offers, which were already known to her at that time. The Petitioner did not 
submit the actual job offer documentation, or disclose the changes to the offers and compensation 
packages, until after the Director issued a request for evidence. 
In light of our determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we decline to reach, and hereby reserve, the Petitioner's appellate arguments 
regarding (1) the other claimed criteria; (2) the Petitioner's intended work in the United States; and 
(3) the prospective benefit to the United States, because they cannot change the outcome of the appeal. 7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We note the Petitioner's 
submission of l's 2018 Annual Report, which lists various "2018 highlights," but we can find no 
recognizable references to the Petitioner's activities as described in letters submitted in support of the 
petition. This is in keeping with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's work was important 
for individual projects, but not critical forl I at the organizational level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516. 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19808233 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 8, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability as a cricket official and 
administrator. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his intent to continue to work in his area 
of expertise and that he would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implement ing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims that e began officiating cricket in India in 2000 and d has been a member of the 
umpiring committee at the -inl North Carolina since 2012.1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for four 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his membership with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) Panel of Scorers and 
references evidence from BCCI indicating that he "passed the Examination for Statisticians and 
Scorers." In addition, he points to a letter from I I interim BCCI, who confirmed 
1 The record reflects that the PetitionerreceivedH 1B nonimmigrantvisa classification reserved for individuals to perform 
services in a specialty occupation, to work as an Oracle solution architect for in Texas. In 
addition, the Petitioner is the beneficiary of an approved second preference immigrant petition as a member of the 
professions with an advanced degree filed byl Ito work as a senior business analyst. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an 
example ofadmission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
the Petitioner's membership with BCCI' s Panel of Scorers and stated that "BCCI formulates the panel 
for each category of match officials like BCCI Panel of Scorers, Umpires, Video Analysts and Match 
Referees," and "[e]ach Panel consists of the individuals who have attained the highest level of 
expertise and achievement in the respective category of match officials." In addition, he provided 
BCCI's "Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations" and amendments to the bylaws 
highlighting: 
The function of the Umpires Committee shall be to standardize umpiring throughout 
India and to draw up and maintain a panel of Umpires to officiate matches in India and 
classify them into Elite Panel, All India Panel and Ranji Trophy Panel of Umpires, 
according to the merits of the Umpires (subject to reclassification), as per criteria 
worked out by the Committee. The committee shall hold examinations from time to 
time for this purpose. 
The Petitioner did not establish that his membership with BCCI Panel of Scorers meets this regulatory 
criterion. Neither BCCI's rules and regulations mention the membership or eligibility requirements 
for the Panel of Scorers, nor did the Petitioner highlight or indicate where they exist in his 
documentation. 3 Instead, the Petitioner references BCCI's rules and regulations relating to umpire 
panels rather than scorer panels. Moreover, although I I claimed that "[e Jach Panel consists of 
the individuals who have attained the highest level of expertise and achievement in the respective category of match officials," the evidence does not corroborate his claims. Furthermore, neitherO 
nor the Petitioner demonstrated that nationally or internationally recognized experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with the Panel of Scorers. In fact, the Petitioner asserts 
that "[p]]assing these examinations is the key event," reflecting that membership is based on passing 
examinations rather than by being judged by recognized national or international experts for 
outstanding achievements. 4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization. 5 The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion 
based on that he "served as a judge of USA Cricket exhibitions in the United States in the role of an 
umpire" and references evidence indicating his designation as an umpire for cricket matches in the 
United States. The record contains background information regarding cricket, including the roles of 
3 Page 14 of BCCI 's rules and regulations reflect that "'Match Official' includes Umpires, Match Referees, Observers, 
Statisticians, Ground Staff and Scorers so appointed by the BCCI or a Full Member from time to time," indicating separate 
and distinctpositions and responsibilities within BCCI. 
4 The record also contains evidence showing that the Petitionerpassedscreeningtests to serve on umpire panels. However, 
the Petitioner did not establish that membership with BCCI's umpire panels require the judging of outstanding 
achievements by recognized national or international experts rather than passing examinations. 
5 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
3 
cricket umpires. Specifically, "[t]he umpires indicate no balls, byes, leg byes, wides, boundaries and 
sixes to the scorers, who keep a running total of the runs scored, while the match referee rules on 
disciplinary matters," and "[t]he third umpire uses TV replays to rule on run outs, stumpings, whether 
a ball has hit the ground before beingcaughtorwhen itis unclear if the ball has crossed the boundary."6 
Again, this regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not 
reflect the duties of a cricket umpire involve evaluating or judging the work of other cricket judges or 
the skills of cricket competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring 
sportsmanlike competition. See Victorov v. Barr, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020) 
(finding a rational connection between the regulation's phrase "judge of the work of others" and the 
AAO's distinction between that and rule enforcement). Without further documentation, such as 
evidence that he exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that the role of a cricket umpire includes participating as a judge of the work of 
others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships and judging. 
Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we 
need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 7 
N eve1iheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
SeeMatterof Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994)(concludingthatevenmajorleague 
level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
6 See Exhibit A6 submitted at initial filing. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter o/L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No.101- 723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b )(l)(A)oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Therecorddoesnotcontain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 8 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he intends to continue to work in his area of expertise under section 203(b)(l )(A)(ii) of the Act and 
whether he will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See Bagamasbad,429 at25-26;sccalsoL-A-C-,26 I&NDec. at516,n.7. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20234562 
Motion on Administrati ve Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes itmnigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual 's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determina tion and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentati on is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detenninati on); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C.2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(l )(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically , a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings , it is the 
petitioner 's burden to establish by a preponderanceofthe evidence eligibility for the requested benefit 
MatterofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under seven categories of evidence : awards under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) ,judgingunder 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , display 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) , and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner maintained her eligibility for these seven criteria. In denying the petition, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one criterion relating to judging. 
On appeal, as discussed in our decision, the Petitioner asserted that she met the other six claim criteria, 
but she only specifically addressed two of the criteria, published material and display. Because the 
Petitioner made no specific allegation of error regarding the awards, original contributions of major 
significance, leading or critical role, and high salary criteria, we considered those issues to be 
abandoned . Furthermore , although the Petitioner claimed that she "will submitted additional argument 
and supporting evidence within 30 days," the record did not contain such submission, more than eight 
months later from our decision. 
As such, we considered the record to be complete and adjudicated the appeal based on the record in 
the proceeding. We determined that although the Petitioner demonstrated her eligibility for the display 
criterion, we concluded that she did not establish that she met the published material criterion. Because 
the Petitioner did not submitthe required evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
met at least three of the ten lesser criteria, we did not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In addition, we reserved the issue relating to her intent 
to continue her work in her area of expertise in the United States under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) of the 
Act, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that "[n]either AAO manual, Form I-290B instructions or the federal 
regulations in Code of Federal Regulations related to the adjudication by AAO cover the legal 
principle of abandonment of the issues on appeal" and claims that "[b ]y imposing a new standard that 
is not explicitly stated in the regulations or instructions , the agency has violated due process." The 
AAO Practice Manual states: 
2 
( f) Statement or Brief Identifying an Error 
An appeal must specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of 
fact in the unfavorable decision on Form I-290B, in a written statement attached to 
Fonn I-290B, in a brief, or in another document submitted with the appeal. 
General assertions that fail to specifically identify any error may result in the AAO 
summarily dismissing an appeal. The appellant must state any arguments it wishes the 
AAO to consider on appeal, even if the arguments were previously raised in earlier 
filings before the field office. 
(footnotes omitted). AAO Practice Manual, Ch. 3. 7(f), https://www.uscis.gov/aao-practicemanual. 
In addition, the instructions on page 4 of Form I-290, Notice of Appeal or Motion, as well as on the 
actual form on page 2, state: "Provide a statement that specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion 
of law or fact in the decision being appealed." See https://www.uscis.gov/i290b. Further, the 
regulation at 103 .3(a)(l )(v) provides for appeals "to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
As discussed in our prior decision and indicated above, the Petitioner provided a statement 
accompanying her appeal that specifically challenged the Director's findings relating to only two 
criteria -published material and display. Her statement did not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion of law or statement of fact as it pe1iained to the other four claimed criteria. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not submit additional arguments and suppmiing evidence subsequent to the filing of her 
appeal in which she indicated on Form I-290B and in her statement that she would do within 30 days.1 
Because the Petitioner did not allege such errors relating to the awards, original contributions of major 
significance, leading or critical role, and high salary criteria, we did not address those prior eligibility 
claims and considered them to be abandoned. 
Fmihermore, the Petitioner did not establish that we imposed a new standard in considering her prior 
eligibility claims not raised on appeal to be abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 
n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse 
decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att 'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's 
claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). See also Greenbriar, Ltd. 
v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, l 573n.6 (11th Cir. l 989)(statingthat passing references to issues 
are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). We note that 
although the Petitioner claims that these "cited cases referred to removal proceedings rather than 
administrative proceedings and do not share the same issues," Hristov involved an appeal of an AAO 
decision relating to an extraordinary ability petition. Regardless, we generally do not address issues 
1 Appellants may, but are not required to, submit a supplemental brief or additional evidence. If the appellant elects not to 
file a b1ief, the appeal must otherwise specifically identify any erroneous conclusionoflaworfact. AAOPracticcManual, 
supra, at Ch. 3.8. 
3 
that are not raised with specificity on appeal. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed 
to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Getty Oil 
Co. v. Andrus, 607 F.2d253, 255-56 (9th Cir.1979) (the court concluded that the law does not require 
the plaintiff to affirmatively waive claims; instead, he waives claims if he fails to assert them on 
appeal). 
The Petitioner also contends that we "exercise de nova review," which "means that the AAO looks at 
the record anew and is not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision" and "may address 
new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision." We exercise de nova review of all 
issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). 
However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our de nova review authority mandates or requires 
us to evaluate and address all previous eligibility claims or other prior arguments that were not raised 
or not contested on appeal. As in the case here, the burden remains with the Petitioner to establish 
eligibility and specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
previously claimed four criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b ). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we erroneously applied law or 
policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss her motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19795789 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist who has conducted numerous workshops and has displayed her work 
in galleries and exhibitions, primarily in Colombia. The Petitioner intends to continue working as a 
visual artist in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three of the ten criteria, namely: original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . 
We agree, as the record establishes that the Petitioner has displayed her work in a number of galleries 
and exhibitions in Colombia. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous, and maintains that she 
meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
2 
The Petitioner claims to have made original contributions in the field of visual arts, with a special 
emphasis on Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that she has 
pioneered new techniques inl land has developed a novel method of working withl land 
I lcolors, and submitted numerous letters of support from experts in her field in support of this 
assertion. In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the testimonial letters submitted 
were highly complementary of her work and professional accomplishments. However, the Director 
determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. He included quotes from several letters and emphasized that while 
they discuss the Petitioner's artistic vision and technical knowledge as applied to specific I 
and the letters lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field or 
how her techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field. The Director cited case law 
indicating that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, consider 
advisory opinions as expert testimony, but that USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding eligibility. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
The Petitioner asserts that she has develo ed a novel method in which she creates colored 
' She further claims that she _________________ __________ 
has pioneered new techniques in where she applies and combines different materials and __ _,lresulting in a I effect which she states is a I appearance. According to 
the Petitioner, she has displayed examples of her work which incorporate these techniques at numerous 
galleries and exhibitions, and has conducted workshops where she mentors other artists in the 
implementation of her methods. The Petitioner asserts that the letters submitted in support of the petition 
and in response to the Director's request for evidence support these assertions. 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's achievements in I I and I I but do not 
demonstrate that her contributions in the artisan field have made the required impact in the field. Upon 
review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements of this criterion. 
We observe that the individuals who provided letters in support of the petition attest to the Petitioner's 
artistic and technical talents as a visual artist, highlight the techniques she has presented in various 
workshops during the course of her career, and contain assertions that she is well known and highly 
regarded within the artisan field. We have no reason to question the credentials of the industry experts 
who provided letters in support of the petition or to doubt the credibility of their statements or the 
sincerity of their praise for the Petitioner's work. However, the letters focus on the Petitioner's 
contributions to specific projects, workshops, or her overall standing in the field rather than 
specifically articulating how her contributions are of major significance in the field and have impacted 
subsequent work. We address a representative sample of the letters below but have reviewed and 
considered each one. 
curator of I Gallery inl I praises the Petitioner's work with 
both and She states that the Petitioner has held various exhibitions at her gallery, and 
praises her "excellent composition in each and every work where she has been well-known recognized 
for her work and beautiful pieces of art." While she describes the "great aesthetic sense and techniques" 
the Petitioner applies to her I lwork, and praises the Petitioner's development ofl I 
3 
techniques and I I' style which she claims "have been used by other I her 
statements do not demonstrate how the Petitioner 's specific contributions have impacted or influenced 
subsequent work in her field. While I generally discusses the Petitioner's novel methods 
and her success in her field, she does not provide specific, detailed information identifying or 
explaining the unusual influence her I I and methods have had in her field, or 
corroborating evidence demonstrating that such methods have been widely adopted and implemented 
by other artists as claimed. Having a diverse or unique skill set is not in-and-of-itself a contribution 
of major significance, unless a petitioner shows that she has used those skills to impact or influence 
the field. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has taught her methods through various classes and workshops . 
Director of the Museum in Colombia , states that in addition to 
exhibiting her and the Petitioner has taught her l method to the museum's 
students, "many of whom now are well-known" artists." I an Italian contemporary 
artist, states that she attended several of the Petitioner's workshops and praises her as a "unique artist and 
mentor," noting that "she perfectly blends the colors that are unique and she has perfect[ ed] them over 
the years."I I further states that she hopes that the Petitioner "has the opportunity to expose 
her unique art and continue to mentor other artists with her techniques which are so wonderful. ... " 
Colombian artist and stained glass designer_ ] who attended the Petitioner ' sl I 
workshops, states that "she demonstrated great ability to handle the I I theme,"' 
highlighting her precise and unique application of 'I and a high degree of I I in order creative original and beautifuH praises her work 
and claims that he implemented her techniques in several of his own projects. 
The authors of these letters attest to the talent of the Petitioner , but do not provide specific examples 
of how the Petitioner's teaching methods or landl I techniques have influenced the work 
of other visual artists, or otherwise equate to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Also, the submitted letters do not include an explanation as to how the Petitioner's choice of methods 
differs from that of other I I or I artists. The plain language of this regulatory criterion 
requires that the Petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than limited 
to the persons that she teaches or mentors. See Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole). Moreover, while the authors praises the Petitioner's innovative methods 
pertaining to I and her I I ' method for I lthey do not identify and specific 
examples of how the Petitioner's methods have influenced the field ofl I and or 
otherwise constitute original contributions of major significance in the field. Vague, solicited letters 
from colleagues that do not specifically identify original contributions or provide specific examples 
of how those contributions influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. 
We further note that while several of the authors claim to have learned a great deal from the workshops 
they attended and praise her expertise and teaching methods, none of the authors indicate that the 
Petitioner has gained recognition for such methods or for significant contributions in the field. 
Generalized conclusory statements that do not identify specific contributions or their impact in the 
field have little probative value. See 1756, Inc. v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990) 
(holding that an agency need not credit conclusory assertions in immigration benefits adjudications). 
The submission of reference letters supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; 
4 
users may evaluate the content of those letters so as to detennine whether they support the 
petitioner's eligibility. Id. See also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008) (noting that 
expert opinion testimony does not purport to be evidence as to "fact"). 
Moreover, we note thar I she "hopes" that the Petitioner "has the opportunity to expose her 
unique art" and "continue to mentor other artists." The regulation requires that the Petitioner has already 
made major and significant impacts within her field. Furthermore, it can be expected that, to rise to 
the level of contributions of major significance, other artists would have already reproduced the 
Petitioner's methods and applied those methods in their work. Here, I I comments 
suggest that the Petitioner's methods have not yet been widely implemented and have not yet 
significantly impacted the field. 
The Petitioner also presented evidence regarding her success in the sale of her artwork. While the 
Petitioner's methods and individual pieces may be unique in the art world, she has not demonstrated 
how her work has influenced the field aside from being distinct from other artwork. While the letters 
in the record from buyers of her work indicate that her work is a favorite among various collectors, 
the Petitioner does not explain how being a favorite of collectors is having a discemable impact in her 
field. While any art with exposure such as the Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, 
she must also demonstrate that her contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the 
level of contributions of major significance, the Petitioner 's work can be expected to have an influence 
on similar artists and similar works of art. Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
With regard to the Petitioner's display of her work in galleries and participation in various art 
exhibitions, the regulations contain a separate criterion for display of work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases . 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Evidence relating to or even meeting the 
display criterion is not presumptive evidence that the Petitioner also meets this criterion. The 
regulatory criteria are separate and distinct from one another. Because separate criteria exist for artistic 
display and original contributions of major significance in the field, users clearly does not view the 
two as being interchangeable. To hold otherwise would render meaningless the statutory requirement 
for extensive evidence or the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate 
criteria. The Petitioner did not explain how her work has substantially impacted the visual arts field, 
has influenced the work of other artists, or otherwise equates to original contributions of major 
significance in the field. At best, the evidence shows that the art world has noticed the Petitioner's 
work and has considered it to be worthy of showing. This consideration, without evidence that her 
work also has affected and/or advanced the field in a significant way, is insufficient to show that the 
Petitioner's work constitutes "contributions of major significance in the field," as required under the 
plain language of the criterion. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. The 
preceding references highlight their acquisition of her work, their display of her work in their respective 
galleries, and their admiration for her as a mentor, and her skills as a visual artist. However, they fail to 
provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's artwork and methods equate to original contributions 
of "major significance" in the field. As noted previously, users may, in its discretion, use as advisory 
opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron lnt'l, 19 I&N Dec. at 795. 
However, users is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters supporting the petition is not 
5 
presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may evaluate the content of those letters as to whether they 
support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 795-796; see also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2. 
Thus, the content of the references' statements and how they became aware of the Petitioner's reputation 
are important considerations. Without additional, specific evidence showing that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted her field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of artistic contributions of major significance, we cannot conclude that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(ix) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner claims that she is highly compensated for the sale of her artwork. The record includes 
notarized statements from four collectors attesting that they have purchased pieces of the Petitioner's 
artwork for the collective sums of $3,000, $3,500, $4,000, and $4,000, respectively, between the years 
of 199 5 and 2020. The Petitioner also submitted photographs of pieces of art listing the value of each 
piece (ranging from $300 to $1,000 per piece) when sold, but the Petitioner's name is not listed in the 
photographs as the artist of those works. 
The record also contains testimonials from gallery owners attesting to the Petitioner's commercial 
sales while associated with each respective gallery. For example, lofl I Gallery 
states that the Petitioner's work drew sales of $6,000 between 2013 and 2015.I I of I I claims that the Petitioner was "linked" to his gallery for several years and that her works 
earned a total of $3,000 during that period; however, the time period in which the sales were accrued 
was not specified. I I ofl I Gallery indicates that the sale of the 
Petitioner's artwork by the gallery between 1995 and 2000 earned $3,500. 
Notwithstanding the above, this regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to demonstrate that she 
commands a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services "in relation to others in 
the field." The Petitioner provided limited documentation of her past remuneration for her artwork, 
and the record lacks comparative information to establish that she commands significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others in her field. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she 
satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
6 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a skilled visual artist specializing in the field ofl landl I and 
that she has gained recognition for her unique works or art as well as her mentoring abilities. But she 
has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20577737 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b Xl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As set forth below, we will reject the appeal. 
The record reflects that attornevl I who represented the Petitioner in the prior filing of 
Form I-140, filed Form I-290B (Notice of Appeal or Motion). However, her Form I-290B was not 
accompanied by the required Form G-28 (Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited 
Representative). 1 Although we sent a notice tol I informing her that we considered the 
Petitioner to be self-represented in the appeal proceeding because she did not submit a properly 
executed Form G-28l did not respond to our notice. 2 
Accordingly, the appeal itself must be rejected as improperly filed. Part 4, Section A of Form I-290B 
(Applicant's or Petitioner's Statement, Contact Information, Certification , and Signature) instructs the 
filer of an appeal based on an application or petition filed by an individual to complete this section. 
provided her information and signed her name in the Petitioner's signature box (subsection A.8.a). 
However , without a properly executed Form G-28, Form I-290B lacks the requisite signature from an 
1 Although! indicated onFormI-290BthatForm G-28 was attached, the record does not reflect that Form G-28 
was submitted with the appeal. 
2 In contrast to theappealnowbefore us, the Petitioner 's initialfilingofFonn I-140 was accompanied by Form G-28 that 
was properly signed by both and the Petitioner . ThatFonn G-28, however, is not valid for the subsequent appeal 
of the Director's denial decision, which requires the filing of a new Fonn G-28. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103 .3(a)(2)(v)(A)(2)(i) 
and 292.4(a). 
authorized signatory.3 Moreover, the absence of a proper signature invalidates the contents of the 
"Petitioner's Certification" that appears above the signature, in particular the closing sentence which 
reads, in pe1iinent part, as follows: "I ce1iify, under penalty of perjury, that I have reviewed this form 
... and all of this information is complete, true, and correct." In the alternative, we cannot consider the 
appeal filed by the Petitioner because the form does not contain his information and his signature, 
certifying that the information therein is complete, true, and correct. In fact, there is no evidence that the 
PetitionerreviewedFonn I-290B. 
Here, the only signature on Form I-290B is that of ,I who is not the "affected party" in this 
proceeding, notwithstanding her initial representation of the Petitioner, and therefore does not have legal 
standing to file the appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B). Further, the regulation at 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.3(a)(2)(v)(A)(l) states that "[a]n appeal filed by a person or entity not entitled to file it must be 
rejected as improperly filed. In such a case, any filing fee the Service has accepted will not be retumed."4 
Since ldidnot submit a properly executed Form G-28 with the appeal and the Petitioner did not 
file the appeal as the "affected party" in this proceeding, we will reject the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is rejected. 
3 The instructions for Form I-290B state that "[e]very form MUST contain the signature of the applicant orpetitioner(or 
parent, legal guardian, or authorized signatory, if applicable). See https://www.uscis.gov/i290b (last visited March 10, 
2022). 
4 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(a)(2)(v)(A)(2)(i) further provides that "[i]f an appeal is filed by an attorney or 
representative without a properly executedNoticeofEntry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative(Forrn G-28) entitling 
that person to file the appeal, the appeal is considered improperly filed. In such case any filing fee the Service has accepted 
will not be refunded regardless ofthe action taken." 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18360658 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 11, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a state retirement system, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a fund manager, as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that the Beneficiary received a Master of Business Management from the I _ 
(Philippines) in 1998 and holds the designation of Chartered Financial 
Analyst. The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary since 2008, most recently in the position of 
Fund Manager Lead. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
evidence to establish that the Beneficiary met all of the four claimed evidentiary criteria. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Beneficiary met the evidentiary criteria pertaining to judging the work 
of others, authorship of scholarly articles, serving in a leading or critical role for an organization with 
a distinguished reputation, and high salary or other significantly high remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix). 
As the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. 1 In a final merits determination, the Director must examine and weigh all of the 
evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary has the 
high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 Specifically, the Director 
was required to evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated the Beneficiary's sustained national 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
2 
or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record demonstrates the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
In addition, on appeal the Petitioner contends that the Director erred "by denying the petition for the 
absence of particular types of predetermined evidence." We agree with that assertion. For example, 
regarding letters from the Beneficiary's employer and work colleagues, the Director's decision notes 
"a common deficiency within each of the letters as they expressed a great appreciation for [the 
Beneficiary's] work, abilities, and achievements, yet none sufficiently explained how any of his 
contributions were original or of major significance in the field. Nor does the [B]eneficiary make such 
an argument within any of his correspondence .... " The Director appears to be referring to elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence of an individual's 
original contributions of major significance in their field. The record reflects that the Petitioner did 
not claim that the Beneficiary satisfies this evidentiary criterion. 
Similarly, the Director's decision states that "[n]o press or media coverage was shown in the evidence 
that would contribute to a finding that [the Beneficiary] has sustained national or international claim" 
and "[n Jo evidence was supplied to indicate [the Beneficiary] was the recipient of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards .... " The Director seems to be referring to elements of 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii), which can be satisfied, respectively, with evidence of 
lesser national or internationally recognized awards and published material about the individual in 
certain media. Again, the record reflects that the Petitioner did not claim that the Beneficiary satisfies 
these evidentiary criteria. Because he neither claimed nor submitted evidence in support of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (v), it was inappropriate to analyze whether the Petitioner has 
shown evidence of the Beneficiary's awards, published materials, or contributions which were 
"original or of major significance" in his field, and to weigh the lack of such evidence as a negative 
factor in determining eligibility. 
In addition, we note that the Director had already determined that the Beneficiary's role with the 
Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires that the Petitioner 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has performed in a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations. The Director's subsequent statements, that the record did not reflect "that [the 
Beneficiary's] role was leading [ for the Petitioner] .... nor reflect his critical role performed for [ the 
Petitioner]," or "that his role[ s] for other organizations were considered leading or critical," were 
contradictory to this determination and not explained. 
Further, we find that the Director did not properly conduct a final merits determination in which he 
considered all the evidence together in its totality. For example, although the Director determined that 
the Beneficiary satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix), the evidence 
related to the judging and scholarly articles criteria is not examined and weighed in the final merits 
discussion. Because the Director did not consider this evidence in the final merits analysis, the 
decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary is 
an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Beneficiary 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19083064 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has either a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award), or that he has satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an executive producer in the entertainment industry whose body of work includes 
production and director of photography credits on commercial, television and film projects. At the 
time of filing, he was scheduled to work on upcoming television projects for I and I 
The Director determined that record did not support the Petitioner's claim that he has a qualifying one­
time achievement and therefore he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
only one of those ten criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award, and, in the alternative, that he meets at least three of 
the ten criteria, discussed below. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner claims that he has 
received up to four qualifying awards, including a Grand Clio Entertainment Award, a Gold Clio 
Entertainment Award, a Gold Pencil Award from The One Show, and a Wehby Award.1 We agree 
with the Director that the evidence does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed these as "lesser national or internationally recognized awards or 
prizes" while indicating that his "Wood Pencil" award from the D&AD Awards was a qualifying one-time achievement. 
The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that the Wood Pencil award is a major, internationally recognized award 
and we will therefore not discuss it here. 
2 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, 
internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize 
as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, international recognition 
may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. The regulation is 
consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, the 
example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality 
of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While 
an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without 
meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be 
global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top awards. 
With respect to his Clio Entertainment A wards, the Petitioner provided a letter froml I I ]of the Clio Awards indicatin that he was reco nized with a 2019 Gold Clio Entertainment 
A ward in the in 2019 for his work on I I I states that the Clio 
Awards are "the premier international awards competition for the creative business." The Petitioner 
submitted a photograph of his award statue confirming his receipt of the award, as well as evidence 
that he received a Grand Clio Entertainment A ward in the same category forl I I !related to the same creative project. The Petitioner also submitted information from the 
Clio Awards website (www.clios.com), which describes it as "the esteemed international awards 
competition," and mentions the "Grand Clio," which is awarded in each category, as "the highest 
honor" bestowed. According to a submitted printout from the main Clio Awards website, fewer than 
20% of submissions within each media type survive the first two rounds of judging to be considered 
for a gold, silver, or bronze statue or a shortlist mention. The Clio Entertainment Awards are described 
as a separate awards program intended to recognize excellence "in marketing and communications 
across film, television, live entertainment and gaming," but the record does not include additional 
information regarding this separate Clio A wards program. 
also provided a photograph of his 2020 One Club Gold Pencil A ward 
category) for the project. A letter from 
the ______ of The One Club for Creativity, indicates that this project received more than 
a dozen awards across different categories at the 2020 awards, and that the Petitioner was credited on 
the work. ______ indicates that The One Club's professional awards show receives 
thousands of entries annually from advertising agencies worldwide, and that "to be selected for a 
Pencil is a great honor." A submitted screenshot from The One Club's website states that The One 
Show awards are "among the most coveted accolades in the history of the industry." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a photograph of his 2020 Wehby Award in the I 
I !category for the I campaign. A 
letter froml lofthe International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, which established 
The Web by Awards in 1996, describes the awards as "the internet' s most respected symbol of success 
and achievement in technology and creativity," noting that "to be awarded at The Wehby Awards is 
3 
to be recognized as being at the very top of the industry." The Petitioner also provided information 
regarding the awards program from the Web by A wards website, and articles about the awards from 
Inc., The New York Times, and Los Angeles Times, which refer to the awards as "the Oscars of the 
Internet." 
While the Petitioner's Clio Entertainment Awards, One Show Awards and Wehby Award are all 
notable professional achievements, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time 
achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner did not present 
evidence, for example, establishing that winners of Clio Entertainment Awards, One Show Awards or 
Wehby Awards are widely reported by international media, recognized by the general public, or gamer 
attention comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. 
Nor is there supporting evidence showing that the recipients of these awards were announced in a 
manner consistent with a major, internationally recognized award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his receipt of the awards discussed above can qualify as a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed to meet the following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iii), Published material in professional, major trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the perfonning arts. 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria by providing evidence that he had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . We will not disturb this 
determination and therefore, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he meets at least two additional 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets at least three of the claimed criteria. 
Specifically, the Petitioner's brief focuses on evidence of his awards, compensation, "critical acclaim" 
received by his work, and his leading and critical positions, a criterion already granted by the Director. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include but are not limited to the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
4 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has documented his receipt of a Wehby Award, Grand Clio and 
Gold Clio Entertainment A wards, and a One Show Gold Pencil award, among other awards from the 
One Show. The record also reflects that the Petitioner received a 2020 Clio Bronze Award, a 
D&AD Wood Pencil Award, and that he was credited for a project that was shortlisted for a Cannes 
Lions Titanium Award. 
We cannot determine based on the evidence submitted that all these awards qualify as nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in the Petitioner's field. However, although 
not at the level of recognition associated with a one-time achievement such as an Academy Award, 
the record reflects that the annual W ebby Awards receive a level of national recognition that extends 
to major industry publications, entertainment media, and mainstream media. After considering this 
and other submitted evidence regarding the W ebby Awards, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) based on his receipt of this award. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged the submitted 
evidence and explained his reasons for determining that none of the submitted published materials met 
all requirements set forth in the regulations. The Director observed that some of the submitted articles 
discussed projects on which the Petitioner had worked, but they were not "about" the Petitioner. We 
observe that most of these articles, some of which were published in major media, were about the _________ campaign on which the Petitioner worked, but they did not mention him 
or his role in the project. The Director also acknowledged that, while a few of the submitted articles 
were about the Petitioner and relating to his work, the supporting evidence, which included 
information from SimilarWeb, did not establish that the websites that published the articles were 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. We observe that one of the submitted 
articles about the Petitioner did not identify the title, date and author of the material and it is unclear 
where it was published. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally states that "the media" has recognized his work, but he neither 
claims nor explains how the previously submitted evidence satisfied the published materials criterion, 
nor does he include any direct reference to this criterion in his appellate brief Further, the Petitioner 
does not point to a specific error on the part of the Director or otherwise address the Director's reasons 
for determining that he did not satisfy the requirements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, 
we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has challenged the Director's determination with respect to this 
criterion on appeal. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
5 
*l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he 
failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish 
that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 3 
The Petitioner provided the following evidence in support of this criterion: (1) a November 2020 letter 
from a producer for I detailing his expected compensation for 2021; (2) a 2019 corporate tax 
return for I which is co-owned by the Petitioner; and (3) wage data for Producers 
or Producers and Directors from various online sources, including the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Glassdoor, and Salary.com. 
The letter froml !outlined the Petitioner's television project slate for 2020-2021 and identified 
four projects under "active negotiation," ranging from $15,000 in expected compensation for a broadcast 
commercial to $600,000 in expected compensation for a I series. However, the record did 
included minimal evidence of the Petitioner's compensation based on previous work. The regulation, by 
requiring evidence that the Petitioner "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration" cannot be satisfied with evidence of expected future earnings. The submitted 2019 federal 
tax return for indicates that this entity paid the Petitioner $40,000 in salary and 
shows that he earned ordinary business income of $697 as a 50 percent owner of the company. While the 
company reported gross earnings of over $613,000, this figure does not represent the Petitioner's salary 
or total remuneration. The supporting wage data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and other sources 
did not establish that the Petitioner's documented 2019 earnings of $40,697 were high in comparison with 
others in his field. 
In a request for evidence, the Director observed that the record lacked supporting financial documentation 
to establish the Petitioner's past earnings (such as payroll records or income tax forms) during any given 
period of time and provided the Petitioner an opportunity to supplement the record. 
In res onse, the Petitioner stated that he "earned a salary of$300,000" for his work on a 12-part miniseries 
for and reiterated that he would be earning $600,000 ($75,000 per episode) for an upcoming 
series titled! I He emphasized that the highest salary reported for a producer, 
according to the submitted wage data sources referenced above, is approximately $183,000. 
However, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not adequately document his 
previous earnings as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner's response to the Director's 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical 
and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
6 
request for for evidence included a bid package and cost summary submitted to 
a production company co-owned by him. The bid total amounted to $236,450.50 and therefore 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that he personally earned a salary of $300,000 for this project. 
Further, the bid total includes many costs and expenses beyond the Petitioner's expected individual 
earnings for the project. His actual remuneration from this project, assuming the bid was accepted, and 
the project was completed by I cannot be determined based on the documentation provided. 
The Petitioner also submitted cost summary documents submitted to (in 
connection with its I !campaign) and to (in 
connection with the _______________ campaign for end-client While 
these documents pre-date the filing of the petition, they do not provide information regarding the 
Petitioner's actual salary earnings or other total remuneration. The Petitioner did not submit any past 
earnings statements, IRS Forms 1099 or W-2, his own individual tax returns, any additional tax returns 
for his co-owned production companies, or other documentation that would allow us to determine his 
compensation based on past work. 
On appeal, although the Petitioner claims the Director erred in concluding that he does not meet this 
criterion, he does not address the Director's determination that the record lacks evidence of his actual past 
earnings. We agree with the Director that the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that the 
Petitioner has commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration compared to other executive 
producers in his industry. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or television 
productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that 
the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others 
involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 4 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to a request for evidence, 
the Petitioner asserted that he satisfies this criterion because he "directly impacted the success" of the 
____________ as its executive producer. The record establishes that the Petitioner 
served as executive producer for 30 episodes of this series; however, as noted above fulfilling this criterion 
is not simply a matter of credited involvement in a film or television series. 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence of the commercial success of the series as s ecified 
in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The Petitioner submitted an article titled 
published by The Wrap in _ 
2015. The article mentions that __ was set to start production on its third season and would 
premiere in the fourth quarter of 2015, but it does not provide evidence of the show's "commercial 
success." The Petitioner highlighted a portion of the article in which the author mentioned that the I I hncreased its audience by 31 percent in the advertise-sought 18-49 demographic and 21 percent 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
in total viewers" between "Q2 2014 and Q2 2013" but did not establish that this overall ratings 
improvement for the network was attributed to the commercial success of I Another article, 
from I states that "the series is popular with the viewers and currently has an 8/10 rating on 
IMDb." However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that would allow a comparison of the 
commercial success of relative to that of other similar programming in the television industry. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged his claims 
regarding the commercial success ofl I But the Director emphasized that the regulatory criterion 
calls for evidence of commercial success in the form of "sales" or "receipts," evidence which the 
Petitioner had not provided. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) or the 
Director's reasons for concluding that he did not establish that he meets this criterion. He generally 
references his work on "highly rated" projects without explaining how the previously submitted 
evidence demonstrates how his work has received high sales, receipts, or comparable evidence of 
commercial success relative to others in the industry. Accordingly, we affirm the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his commercial successes in the performing arts. 
C. Prior approval of 0-1 nonimmigrant petition 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. 
In addition, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate 
record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information 
contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required 
to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of 
prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 
593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 
1987). Furthermore, we are not bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), affd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
8 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has been engaged in steady work as a producer and director of commercial 
and television projects, co-owns and leads a successful production company, and had recently 
participated in a I campaign for the I I that garnered 
media attention for the network and series and industry awards for the Petitioner and other creative 
professionals involved in the campaign. However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work to date is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19518886 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a anatomist and professor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, he concluded that the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner's entry would provide a substantial prospective benefit to the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an associate professor in the department of anatomy at the I I University of I I and at the time of filing was a visiting professor at the University I I He received a 
Doctor of Philosophy degree in medical science in 2011, and indicates that he intends to continue his 
work in the application of cross reality and other technologies to the field of human anatomy. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and his participation as 
a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work, and original 
contributions of major significance to his field.1 
Prior to issuing his decision, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) which notified the 
Petitioner that he met the two criteria mentioned above, but did not meet four other criteria which he 
had initially claimed. However, the Director's RFE did not go into sufficient detail regarding the 
deficiencies in the evidence submitted, using less than five words to describe the multiple documents 
and types of evidence for all but one of the criteria. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(8)(iv) 
requires that an RFE or notice of intent to deny provide "adequate notice and sufficient information to 
1 The Petitioner did not respond to the Director's RFE with additional evidence or arguments regarding his claim to the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), nor does he do so on appeal. His claim to qualify under that evidentiary criterion is 
therefore abandoned. 
2 
respond," but here the lack of information in the Director's RFE did not give the Petitioner adequate 
notice of the deficiencies in the evidence or a reasonable opportunity to respond. 
Similarly, in his decision to deny the petition, the Director did not directly address the reasons for his 
conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet the three additional criteria he claimed at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (v). We note that the section of the decision under the heading 
"Analysis of Criteria" simply lists the criteria met and not met by the Petitioner, and does not provide 
any analysis of the evidence submitted under each of those criteria. Further in the decision, the section 
titled "Conclusion" makes reference to several types of evidence, including reference letters and 
citation records, and makes conclusions about whether this evidence generally shows that an original 
contribution is of major significance to field. Although this appears to be the missing analysis of the 
evidence submitted in support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the decision does not 
specifically address a single piece of that evidence, nor does it evaluate the response to the RFE or the 
additional evidence submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
of the three criteria claimed by the Petitioner in addition to the two criteria that the Director has 
determined were met. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As discussed above, the Director provided no analysis of the evidence submitted under this criterion 
in his decision. In responding to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence relating to two 
of the four awards he initially claimed: the "Best Presentation Award" from the I Association 
of Anatomists, and the Award for Basic Medicine from the Medical Association. On remand, 
the Director should focus his analysis on the evidence of these two awards and their recognition in the 
field of endeavor. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Similar to the above criterion, the Director's decision includes no analysis of the evidence submitted 
under this criterion, or discussion of the Petitioner's initial claims or those made in his RFE response. 
On remand, the Director should consider the Petitioner's evidence and claims made at each step of the 
adjudication of this petition and address their sufficiency in meeting each of the elements of this 
criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As we noted above, the Director's discussion in the "Conclusion" section of his decision appears to 
mainly relate to evidence submitted under this criterion. However, this discussion does not mention 
specific evidence, referring instead to "testimonial letters" and "various materials." On remand, the 
Director should provide an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of this criterion as 
well as the claims made by the Petitioner in his initial filing, RFE response and appeal brief. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he was 
not required to conduct a final merits determination of whether the Petitioner has established that he 
possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
C. Substantial Prospective Benefit 
In his decision, the Director summarized the Petitioner's written statement, which included a detailed 
description of his past research projects and how he intends to continue to pursue them in the United 
States. This summary acknowledges the Petitioner's statements regarding the benefits his research 
would bring to the United States, but concludes that the record does not include evidence of "how the 
Petitioner's work will be advantageous and of use to the interests of the United States on a national 
level." We note that the Director's RFE requested the same type of evidence that had already been 
provided by the Petitioner, a statement detailing his plans. 
In addition, the Director did not consider the reference letter from ______ of __ 
College, who writes that the United States would "benefit from [the Petitioner's] experience and 
expertise in the application of 3D modeling in forensic anthropology, human osteology, human 
anatomy ... " since American labs are not as experienced in the use of this technology. We further note 
that because neither the regulations nor statute specifically define the term "substantially benefit," it 
has been interpreted broadly. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(3), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. As the Petitioner has submitted a detailed plan of his intended 
work in his field in the United States as well as evidence of its substantial prospective benefit, we 
withdraw the Director's decision and find that he meets this statutory requirement. 
ORDER: The Decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19843251 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sound design and editing 
field. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(1XA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been employed within the sound design and editing field by ___ I I since 2009. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that 
he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains eligibility for seven criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does 
not establish that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his receipt of al I Award 
and a I Award. In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that he 
received prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 
Regarding thel I Award, the Petitioner references evidence fro showing that he 
received a I in the for at the second 
annual ceremony in 2010. In addition, the screenshots reflect that the Awards is produced 
by I and land honors the best in online video and the creators 
behind it." Further, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that some media coverage, such 
as usatoday.com, hollywoodreporter.com, and ew.com, reported on the background. nominees, and 
winners from the past ten years. Although he demonstrated his receipt of al I Award, the 
Petitioner did not establish the award's national or international recognition for excellence in his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner did not show that his sound design and editing field recognizes his I I Award as a national or international award for excellence. The presented evidence, for 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html. 
2 
instance, does not discuss or acknowledge his field's view ofreceiving a Award to reflect its 
national or international recognition for excellence. 
As it relates to the I IA ward, the Petitioner references a screenshot from I I 
showingthatthe film] I received an award atthe fifth annuall I Awards in 2017. 2 
The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or 
prizes. 3 Here, the record reflects that the film rather than the Petitioner received the award. Although the 
Petitioner submitted additional screenshots from imdb .com that lists the Petitioner as a winner at the 2017 I !Awards, theevidencefroml ldoesnotcorroboratethisclaim. Moreover,asthere 
are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site, we will 
not assign weight to infonnation fromimdb.com. Cf. LaamilemBadasa v. MichaelMukasey, 540F.3d 
909 (8th Cir. 2008) (finding that another open, user-edited internet site Wiki edia, lacks reliability of 
the content). 4 Without evidence from the awarding entity, such as or other credible, 
independent sources, the Petitioner did not establish that he received a 2017 Award. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that thel I Award is nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of endeavor. Although he provided 
information aboutl I and festivals, the Petitioner did not show how the evidence establishes 
the national or international recognition ofl _ awards for excellence in his field of sound 
design and editing. Further, according to the screenshots from I I submitted by the 
Petitioner, "[w ]inners will receive ourl I Trophy ... making what we are sure will 
soon become one of the most coveted awards on the festival circuit, and this is just the beginning," 
opining on its anticipated or projected recognition in the overall festival industry rather than 
demonstrating its national or international recognition for excellence in his field of sound design and 
editing. Moreover, according to the screenshots, "[c]ategories were expanded this year to include 
more awards, many of which will now be awarded a high quality, brushed silver plaque while the 
major categories will be awarded thel I Trophy" and "* indicates awards is a plaque'd award." 
The IA ward claimed by the Petitioner has an asterisk next to its award indication, showing 
that the film did not receive an award in a major category. Even if he established that al I 
Trophy represents a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence, which he did not, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a lesser "plaque'd award" also constitutes an award "for 
excellence." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
2 The record also contains a document listing all of the nominees under ea ch category. The film, is listed 
with six other films. In fact, there is no category listing sound designers or editors. 
3 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
4 See also imdb.com: 
Disclaimer of Warranties andLimitationofLiability: The IMDB Services and all information, content, 
materials, products (including software) and other services included on or othe1wise made available to 
you through the IMDB services are provided by IMDB on an "as is" and "as available" basis. IMDB 
makes no representations or warranties ofa ny kind, express or imp lied, as to the operation of the TMDB 
services or the information, content, materials, products (including software) or other services included 
on or othe1wise available to you through the IMDB services. Use of the IMDB services is at your sole 
risk, IMDB reserves the right to withdraw any IMDB services or delete any infmmation from the IMDB 
services at any time in its discretion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on his membership with the Motion Picture 
Sound Editors (MPSE). In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in 
the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner references screenshots from mpse.org; a letter froml l l ___ 
__ for MPSE; and recommendation letters. 6 I confirmed the Petitioner's active 
membership status and stated: 
To gain active membership status in MPSE, an applicant must complete and submit an 
application to the Board of Directors. The Board of Director's discusses the applicant's 
qualifications, and acceptance of the applicant requires a majority vote of the Board of 
Directors. The minimum requirement for Active Membership is proof of three (3) 
consecutive years' experience as a sound editor or sound designer or music editor 
cutting Dialogue, ADR, Sound Effects, Foley, or Music or as a Foley Artist. 
Additionally, an applicant must have made, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, 
an outstanding contribution to his or her field of endeavor. The application must be 
completed in full, along with any supporting materials, and must be supported by two 
(2) active members. The Board of Directors detennines any additional requirements. 
In addition, the submitted excerpts of MPSE's '"Constitution and By-Laws" posted on its website 
repeat !statement above. Further, a letter froml I of MPSE, 
indicated that "our final focus has always been on whether the applicant has made an 'outstanding 
contribution' to the field of sound." Although they discuss an "outstanding contribution," the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires "outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, a "contribution" is not synonymous with an "achievement." Contribution is defined as: 1) 
the act of contributing, such as a) the giving or supplying of something as a part or share, orb) the 
giving or supplying of something that plays a significant part in making something happen; 2) 
something that is contributed, such as a) something that is given or supplied as a part or share, b) 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 The Petitioner provided additional evidence onappealrela ting to his membership status. However, we will not consider 
this evidence for the first time onappealas itwasnot presented before the Director. SccMattcrofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 
764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if"the petitionerwas put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any 
purpose"and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&NDec. 533 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner had the opp01iunity to submit the evidence at the time 
he filed his petition and in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this evidence for the first 
time on appeal. 
4 
something that plays a significant part in making something happen, or c) something that is supplied 
for a publication; or 3) a payment imposed by military, civil, or ecclesiastical authorities usually for a 
special or extraordinary purpose. See www.merriam-webster.com. An achievement, on the other 
hand, is defined as: 1) the act of achieving something; 2) a) a result gained by effort orb) a great or 
heroic deed; or 3) the quality and quantity of a student's work. Id. Here, the Petitioner did show that 
membership with MPSE requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish that the outstanding contributions are 
judged by recognized national or international experts. Although! land MPSE's constitution 
and bylaws indicated that MPSE's Board of Director's determine whether an applicant has made 
outstanding contributions, they do not discuss the composition of the Board of Directors. The 
Petitioner did not show thatthe Board of Directors is comprised of recognized national or international 
expe1is in their disciplines or fields who judge the outstanding achievements for membership, as 
required under this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 7 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 8 
The record reflects that he submitted one article from indianexpress.com, one article from 
newindianexpress.com, one article from firstpost.com, one article from rediff.com, and one article 
from thehindu.com constituting published material about the Petitioner relating to his sound design 
and editing field. In addition, all of these articles contained the necessary titles, dates, and authors. 9 
Initially, the Petitioner provided readership and circulation data related to the printed publications of 
The Indian Express, The New Indian Express, and The Hindu rather than for the websites that posted 
7 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
8 Although the Petitioner submitted additional evidence on appeal relating to a readership survey and newspaper and 
magazine figures, we will not consider this evidence for the first time on appeal as it was not presented before the Director. 
See Soriano, 19 I&NDec. at766; seealsoObaigbena, 19 I&NDec. at 533. 
9 At initial filing, the Petitioner provided additional articles from indianexpress.com (1 ), firstpost.com (2), and 
soundandpicture.com (1) and a book. However, these materials did not reflect published material a bout him relating to his 
work and/or did not contain the required title, date, and author. Further, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner 
did not continue to c !aim eligibility for th is criterion based on these materials. The Petitioner did maintain eligibility based 
on an a1iicle posted on soundandpicture.com and an a1iicle posted on behindwoods.com. However, the 
soundandpicture.com article did not include the author and did not represent published material about him, and the 
behind woods.com article did not contain the date. Thus, none of these materials mentioned here qualify for this criterion. 
5 
the articles. See, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). In addition, the Petitioner submitted background and contact information 
from firstpost.com. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007), aff'd 2009 
WL 6048 8 8 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to 
the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Finally, the record did not reflect 
that the Petitioner offered evidence relating to the status of rediff.com. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted information from The Indian Express 
claiming that its website has "over 120 million page views a month" and from the The New Indian 
Express asserting that its "readers of the newspaper spread all across the world with a very high NRI 
traffic to the website." See Braga, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ajf'd 2009 at WL 604888. In addition, he 
offered readership statistics for The Indian Express and The New Indian Express from 
bestmediainfo.com. Again, the record does not show that the articles were printed in the respective 
publications but posted on their websites. See, e.g., Victorov, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020WL 
3213788, at *8. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots from themediaant.com highlighting that firstpost.com 
receives 50 million impressions per month and thehindu.com receives 22 million monthly active users 
and from mobilemerchants.com that rediff.com receives 17 million monthly unique visitors. The 
Petitioner, however, did not establish the significance of these statistics, showing that the websites 
represent professional or major trade publication or other major media.10 For example, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate or explain the meaning of such figures, to reflect major status in India or 
internationally. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization.11 The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility 
for this criterion. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner indicated that he met this criterion 
based on serving on a panel for MPSE' s IA wards and referenced a recommendation letter 
froml I who stated that he "was actually the person who invited [the Petitioner] to se1ve 
on the Awards' panel of judges" and "[the Petitioner's] evaluation of peers' work is of considerable 
value to the board." Although the Petitioner also pointed to the previously discussed letter fromD I I the letter makes no mention of the Petitioner serving on a judging panel but indicated that 
MPSE holds the annual I I Awards. In addition, the Petitioner cited tol ts letter 
who stated that "[a]s an active MPSE member, [the Petitioner] is part of the distinguished body of 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2(B)(2) (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professionalormajor 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
com pared to other circulation statistics). 
11 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
6 
voters responsible for selecting the annual slate of nominees and winners for the highly coveted I I Awards." 
The Petitioner's evidence, however, makes broad claims without providing specific, detailed 
information demonstrating that he actually participated as a judge of the work of others. The evidence, 
for instance, does not contain probative information elaborating on whom, what, and when he judged. 
Instead, the letters generally asse1i that the Petitioner was invited to serve and was part of a panel 
without sufficiently describing his judging work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he submitted an additional letter from lbut makes 
no argument explaining how the letter demonstrates his eligibility for this criterion. In fact, I 
does not discuss the Petitioner serving as a judge for MPSE's I Awards, let alone any 
mention of MPSE or the I Awards. In addition, the Petitioner references evidence relating 
to MPSE and the [Awards. However, none of the documents show the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge. Without further information or supporting evidence, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he participated as a judge for MPSE'sl I Awards. 
The Petitioner also asse1is eligibility for the firsttime on appeal based on his active membership status 
with MPSE and references MPSE's "Constitution and By-Laws," indicating that "[a]ctive members 
in good standing shall have the right to vote at membership meetings." The Petitioner did not make 
this claim before the Director. See Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 7 66; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 
533. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that he actually voted in his 
capacity as an active member, nor did any of his evidence discussed above make such a claim. Similar 
to his claims regarding the I I Awards, the record does not contain detailed, probative 
information reflecting on whom, what, and when he voted. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that voting at MPSE membership meetings involves participating as a judge of the work 
of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.12 Initially, the Petitioner provided 
copies of his paystubs and his 2018 IRS Fonn W-2, Wage and Tax Statement from In addition, 
he submitted screenshots from bis.gov reflecting median pay figures for broadcast and sound 
engineering technicians and screenshots from Simply Hired relating to sound engineer salaries. In 
response to the Director's RFE, he offered his 2019 Form W-2, annual salary information for sound 
designers from careersinfilm.com, average sound designer salary data from payscale.com, and average 
annual salary figures for sound mixers from finance.yahoo.com. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner compared his salary to that of the average or median salaries of 
broadcast and sound engineering technicians, sound engineers, sound designers, and sound mixers. 
12 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
7 
However, the record does not reflect that employs him in this capacity. Rather, the record shows 
that he is at a supervisory position. Although the record does not include a current job letter specifying 
his position, the records contains documentation referring to the Petitioner as a supervising sound 
designer and editor. For instance, I stated that"[ a ]s a sound designer and supervisor, he is 
tasked with managing editors on his team to complete the project per the client's expectations and 
needs." Further, an article from soundpicture.com I 
___________ referenced the Petitioner as the "supervising sound editor." The 
Petitioner did not compare his salary to other supervising sound designers and editors. Both precedent 
and case law support this applicationof8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the 
field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers);Muniv. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440,444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995)(comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen ). Here, the Petitioner did not show 
that the comparison of average and median salaries oflower level positions reflects his commandment 
of a high salary in relation to other supervisory sound designers and editors. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard- statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, judging, and high salary. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these 
additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
8 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues.13 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (statingthat"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Therecorddoesnotcontain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 SeeINSv. Bagamasbad,429U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter o/L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17561866 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a multimedia designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . In our decision dated May 29, 2020, we agreed with the Director and 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. He subsequently filed a motion to reconsider, which was received 
on August 26, 2020, 89 days after our appeal decision was issued. We dismissed the motion as 
untimely. The Petitioner now submits combined motions to reopen and reconsider, challenging our 
previous decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision , and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reconsider must be filed within 33 of the 
date of the unfavorable decision. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, in our most recent decision in this matter, we dismissed the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider because it was not timely filed. While we acknowledged that USCIS issued guidance that 
allows for acceptance of Form I-290B within 60 calendar days of the unfavorable decision, due to 
processing and mailing delays resulting from the COVI-19 pandemic, the Petitioner's previous motion 
was not received until 89 days after our appeal decision was issued. 
On motion, the Petitioner makes three arguments that the previous motion should not have been 
rejected as untimely. First, he refers to an email dated July 1, 2020 from USCIS which announced an 
extension of filing flexibilities initially instated on March 30, 2020. He highlights the language from 
that email which lists "filing date requirements for Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion" as one 
of several listed documents to which the flexibility applies. However, that email clearly states that a 
Form I-290B will be considered if "received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision 
before we take any action." Therefore, because the Petitioner's Form I-290B for his first motion was 
received 89 days after the date of our appeal decision, it cannot be considered to have been filed within 
the extended period allowed by the COVID-19 filing flexibilities policy. 
Second, the Petitioner notes that an initial Form I-290B was received on July 2, 2020, 34 days after 
our unfavorable decision, but was rejected because it was filed on an outdated form, which he attributes 
to "a minor clerical error." In addition, he refers to submitted media articles regarding delays and 
other issues at the U.S. Postal Service during the COVID-19 pandemic, asserting that these led to a 
delay in his ability to refile the rejected Form I-290B. The Petitioner supports this argument by 
referring to 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i), which allows USCIS to excuse an untimely filed motion to 
reopen in our discretion if the delay was reasonable and beyond the control of the petitioner. However, 
the regulation does not provide for discretion with regard to untimely filed motions to reconsider, 
which is the type of motion filed by the Petitioner after our dismissal of his appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of 
record or that that we misapplied relevant policy or law. In addition, after review of the new facts 
submitted in support of his motion to reopen, we conclude that he has not overcome the grounds for 
our dismissal of his previous motion. Accordingly, we will dismiss both motions. 
2 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19865708 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 17, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordin ary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preferenc e classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or internation al acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive document ation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C.2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderanceofthe evidence eligibility for the requested benefit 
MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A brief summary of this proceeding reflects that the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria: awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . As such, we evaluated the 
totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 1 Based on this review, we 
concluded that the Petitioner did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim,2 that he 
is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian , 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 
As a preliminary matter, the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse 
decision. Accordingly, we examine any new arguments to the extentthat they pertain to our dismissing 
his appeal. Thus, the issue before us is whether we erred in evaluating the totality of the Petitioner's 
evidence in the final merits determination. 
On motion, the Petitioner contends that since we did not disturb the Director's decision relating to 
meeting three criteria, we contradicted ourselves by negating the evidence in the final merits 
determination. In addition, the Petitioner asserts that "since Regulation requires 3 criteria together to 
prove national or international acclaim, then one criterion has only to qualify 1/3 of national or 
international acclaim." The Petitioner made similar arguments on appeal, which we thoroughly 
addressed. Again, Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 set forth the multi-part analysis where a two-part 
review is conducted: the evidence is first counted to determine whether the individual fulfills at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria, and if so, then the totality of evidence is considered in the context of 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability undersection203(b)(l )(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of"sustain"as to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
2 
final merits determination to decide whether an individual is among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. While the Petitioner continues to maintain that simply 
satisfying three criteria is sufficient in showing eligibility for an extraordinary ability classification, 
for the reasons stated, both case law and USCIS policy do not support his assertions. 
In the final merits determination relating to his awards, we discussed the Petitioner's five awards and 
explained why they did not demonstrate his sustained national acclaim in his field and indicate that he 
is currently among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On motion, the 
Petitioner states that "[s]ince [the] Service Center admitted that [he] has met this criterion and [the] 
AAO has not in its opinion disqualified this criterion, [he] regards it as also admitted by AAO and 
does not need to further address this criterion." Here, the Petitioner does not contest or explain any 
error in our determination for this issue. 
Regarding published material, we concluded that he submitted one qualifying article reflecting 
published material about him and acknowledged that he provided ten other articles. Moreover, we 
determined that while his limited media coverage indicated that he had received some media 
recognition for certain roles and projects during his career, the record did not demonstrate that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim. On motion, the Petitioner claims that he "was 
rep01ied many times and [he] only selected 10 from the many reports" and "[h]ad [the] Service Center 
required a definite number of more than 10 reports by media in its RFE [he] could have providedmany 
more reports about [him]." In the case here, we evaluated the record based on the Petitioner's claims 
and his submitted documentation. If further media reporting existed and he wanted us to evaluate the 
evidence, then he shouldhave submitted the additional documentation. Moreover, itis the Petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not specify a ce1iain number of published 
articles to meet the first step in the Kazarian analysis but may be a consideration in the second part. 
This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the 
quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of 
evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of 
the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Chawathe, 
25 I&NDec. at 376. 
As it pertains to his judging experience, we determined that his single instance of judging in 2015 did 
not show him as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. On motion, the 
Petitioner contends that the "[r]egulation requires alien to judge the work of other peers," and "[i]t 
does not require such judgment made by an internationally top person." The first step of the Kazarian 
analysis involves determining whether the individual satisfies the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204 .5 (h)(3)(iv ), which requires evidence that the individual has participated as a judge of the work 
of others. Once the first step is achieved, then the totality of the evidence, including any judging 
experience, is evaluated in the second step of the analysis. Although we agree that an individual is 
not required to judge an internationally top person, the Petitioner did not show how his limited judging 
experience represented an individual as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner, for instance, did not demonstrate how his sole instance ofjudging of an 
internal organizational award at the China Film Performing Arts Institute in 2015 distinguished him 
within his field, reflecting sustained national or international acclaim or that his achievements have 
been recognized through extensive documentation. 
3 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we considered 
additional documentation in the record to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrated 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Specifically, we evaluated evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's membership with the China Theatre Association (CTA) and concluded that he did not 
establish that his membership was indicative of his sustained national or international acclaim, 
garnered him such acclaim, or that membership was reserved for those actors in the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. On motion, the Petitioner makes his prior assertion that "membership in 
CTA is one of the listed criteria towards providing his sustained national acclaim. Or his membership 
has met 1/3 of the requirement of national or international acclaim." Again, the Petitioner did not 
meet the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for the first part of the Kazarian analysis. 
Even ifhe did, simply satisfying the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) does 
not establish sustained national or international acclaim, as previously discussed. Regardless, we 
addressed his membership claims in the final merits determination and explained that the Petitioner 
did not show how is evidence qualified him for extraordinary ability classification. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we erroneously applied law or 
policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18389347 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physical education specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(lXA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not establish his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one 
of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to detem1ine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. We note that in conducting the final merits determination, the Director focused only on evidence 
related to those criteria which he had found that the Petitioner met. USCIS policy states that all 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability undersection203(b)(l )(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of"sustain" as to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
evidence in the record be considered under the final merits determination, independent of the 
evidentiary criteria analysis performed previously. 3 Accordingly, we have analyzed the record in its 
entirety, which includes other relevant evidence such as the Petitioner's membership in professional 
associations, original contributions of major significance, and high salary. In this matter, we determine 
that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor's degree in physical education from the _______________ · 89, a specialization in exercise physiology from the 
in 1991, and a master's degree in collective health 
from __ in 2003. He has been employed by lsince 1987, most recently as coordinator 
of the exercise physiology laboratory of its pulmonary rehabilitation center since 2005. As indicated 
above, the Director determined that the Petitioner reviewed several papers, authored some scholarly 
material, and serves in a critical position for the Petitioner. However, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner's judging events included serving as an evaluator on the examination board 
for final papers related to physical education atl in November 2014; 
participating gas a member of the examining board for final works in the specialization course in family 
health at __ in May, July, and September 2015; and performing as an evaluator of student 
works in physical education during Physical Education Week at in November 
201 7. However , the Petitioner did not establish that these instances place him among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his review experience compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these judging events, occurring approximately 
within four years from the filing of the petition in September 2018, contribute to a finding that he has 
a career of acclaimed work in the field or are indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his review work. 
Moreover, participating in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an 
individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of 
his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a 
consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served in 
editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired technical committees for 
reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that his peer review experience places him among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when 
considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the 
required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 See also Id. (statingthatan individual's participation should be evaluated to detetminewhether it was indicative ofbeing 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
Likewise, authorship and publication do notautomaticallyplace one atthe top of the field. 5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner's article, was published by I 7 in 2003. The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has presented his research at national and 
international conferences. The record shows his three articles, 
I I" 
and 
were presented at 
l the 2016 International Convention on Science, Education, and Medicine in Sport 
(ICSEMIS), and the 40th International Symposium on Sports Sciences (2017), 6 respectively. The 
record does not show that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at the very top of 
the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of four documents 
in a fifteen-year timeframe is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 7 The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" forlesserclassifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that his authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of his 
authorships or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the 
field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written works can be an 
indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his works have been recognized and that 
other researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination 
stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner did not show that 
his written or presented material garnered him any national or international acclaim. See section 
203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not submit corroborating citatory documentation or other 
evidence consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, as mentioned above, the Petitioner 
has been employed by las coordinator of its exercise physiology laboratory since 2005. He 
5 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (stating that publications should be evaluated to determinewhethertheywere 
indicativeofbeingone of that small percentage who has risen to the very topofthe field ofendeavorandenjoyingsustained 
national or international acclaim). 
6 The record shows that theannuallntemational Symposium on Sports Sciences is organized by th 
1 l 
7 The record contains two additional articles andonee-bookindicatingthePetitioner's authorship. The Petitioner 's 2019 
article in the International Journal o Cardiovascular Sciences, 2022 article in thelnternational Journal of Health Science, 
and e-book __________ __,publish ed in 2019 were after the date when the petition was filed in 
September 2018. The Petitioner must establish that a 11 eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, we will 
not consider this evidence. 
4 
also has served as First Secretary of the since 2016. 
The Petitioner provided letters of recommendation from several colleagues that summarized his work 
withl _ and I 8 8 However, the Petitioner did not establish that his role with either 
organization resulted in attention or recognition from the field, reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. See 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. For instanceJ I 
head of the pulmonary rehabilitation center at I highlights the Petitioner's development of a 
year-long, weekly improvement course for municipal physical education teachers, and asserts that the 
Petitioner's contributions have "permanently improved the Pulmonary Rehabilitation Center." In 
addition, 0 Second Secretary of I I confirms the 
Petitioner's role as First Treasurer ofl I since 2016, provides that he is responsible for the 
organization's financial department and "treasury file," and asserts that he has "contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome" of I 
Although the above letters describe the Petitioner's duties and highlight several of his contributions, 
they do not discuss whether any of his professional achievements with those organizations garnered 
him any national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the letters do 
not show the Petitioner's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did 
not establish how his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant 
attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, s letter does 
not explain or justify how the Petitioner's position with I I has resulted in his having, as he 
asserts, "sustained national acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation ." Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
Petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). 
Beyond the three criteria thatthe Petitioner has satisfied, we have considered additional documentation 
in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For 
the reasons discussed below, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to his membership in associations in the field, on appeal the Petitioner highlights his 
memberships in the IParalympic Academy, the board of directors of and the local 
organizing committee of ICSEMIS 2016. The Petitioner has not demonstrated how membership in 
those organizations reflects or results in national or international acclaim or is indicative of his 
placement among the small percentage of scientific researchers who have risen to the top of the field. 
Without this evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that being a member of these associations 
reflects a level of sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification . See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
8 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
As it relates to his original contributions, the record contains several reference letters that briefly 
describe the Petitioner's past research projects but do not elaborate and explain any attention that he 
received from the field based on his written work and research. 9 For example, in two lettersJ I 
the Petitioner's co-author at and doctoral student discusses the ----------research methods and findin s of their article titled ' _____________________ ," which he characterizes as "an original 
contribution of major significance" in the field. He broadly claims that "other individuals of great 
renown in our areas of expertise have been utilizing the techniques and methodolo ies developed by 
[the Petitioner]." Similarly, in his above refer enced letter, claims that the 
Petitioner's article titled ' "was 
at congresses and "had an incredible impact," and the Petiitioner 's 
master's thesis advisor asserts that the Petitioner's stud titled " 
' had "such great 
impact" that it was presented at "one of the most important" conferences in the field, the 2017 I I conference. 10 Although the letters of I andl I reflect 
the originality of the Petitioner's work and that it has received some attention, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he has garnered recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the letters did not provide specific information, such as identifying the authors, papers, and 
publications that cited to the Petitioner's written or presented research, or the number of citations to 
the Petitioner's published work, and explain how those citations sufficiently demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, ________________ the vice-dean of thel I extension 
program, states that the physical education extension courses taught by the Petitioner in the city of I lwere a significant contribution to the general population "who benefitted from more 
trained and ualified professionals."! I worked with the Petitioner in 
the program, a government program initiated in 2013 to address the shortage of doctors 
in _ by expediting the provision of training and certification to foreign doctors. He provides that 
the Petitioner was a supervisor in the program, monitoring the progress of doctors enrolled in a 
residency program in General Family and Community Medicine atthel !medical school, and 
claims that without the Petitioner's "original contribution of major significance .... the ability to hire 
foreign physicians in I would have suffered a considerable e delay , ." However, these letters do 
not explain how the Petitioner's teaching duties with the_ I extension program or his 
supervisory activities with the I I program support the assertion that he is considered 
________________________________ published in the 
International Journal of Cardiovascular Sciences, "provoked widespread public commentmy." However, this article was 
published after the date when the petition was filed in September 2018. As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing th rough 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l ). We, therefore , will not consider this evidence . 
6 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or that he has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim.11 
Finally, although the record reflects the Petitioner's income with I I the record does not 
establish that he commands earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages are tantamount to an 
individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his salary compared to others at 
the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating him 
from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994)(concludingthat 
even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as 
an individual of "extraordinary ability"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks 
omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design"); 
Hamalv. Dep 'tofHomeland Sec. (Hamalll), No.19-cv-2534,2021 WL2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 
8, 2021) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c ]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner 
need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the 
record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 Further althou h the Petitioner hi hlights his purported participation as thecoordinatorforthe 2018 seminar 
the documentation submitted from that seminar reflects that the coordinator was 
and does not indicate the Petitioner's participation. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19272434 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a I I athlete and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that his entry into 
the United States would provide a substantial prospective benefit. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in I I events for many years, and has placed in 
competitions at the regional, national, and international level. He has also acted as a trainer, 
primarily for local police departments. He states that he intends to continue to compete in 
sports events in the United States, as well as open a I academy to train others in the sport. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
same five evidentiary criteria he claimed in his original filing and in response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet 
three of the criteria, and therefore does not satisfy the initial evidence requirement for the requested 
classification. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The evidence includes scoring results from several 
websites of th etitions sourced from the 
_________ and the ___________________ These 
show that the Petitioner placed at several tournaments, however several of these documents do not 
show the name, place, or date of the competition. For example, exhibit 27 of the original submission 
consists of pages of charts with results which show that the Petitioner finished third in the I I I master" division, but there is no identification of the competition in which these results were 
earned. Other documents include only partial information, such as the date on which the results were 
achieved. The match results from the W orld I (2011) and W orld (2014) 
2 
are sufficient to show that he placed fourth and third, respectively, in the "standard junior" division at 
those competitions. We note that the record does not include evidence that the Petitioner received a 
prize or award for placing fourth in 2011, but does include a photograph of a trophy for his third place 
finish in 2014. 
Also included in the record is information about the from the organization's website, including 
a list of past continental and world championships, in some of which the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that he participated. This evidence states that competitions such as the world are considered to 
be the top level of those held or sponsored by while continental championships such as the Pan 
American and Latin American I championships in which the Petitioner also placed are at the 
next lower level of competition. As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he has received at least one 
award at the top level of competition in I we conclude that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate satisfaction of this criterion, a noncitizen must show that they are a member of an 
association in their field, that that association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership, that those achievements are judged by national or international experts in that field. 
The Petitioner bases his claim to meeting this criterion on · · on membership in the I I as well as the 
United Statesl IAssociatio While he asserts that the Director concluded 
that he had not established his membership in this is incorrect, as the decision refers to the 
letter from _________ President of the organization, as providing evidence of his 
membership. We agree that the Petitioner has established that he is a member of and that this 
is an association in his field of I 
Regarding the next element, whether! requires outstanding achievements of its members, the 
Petitioner initially referred to Article 10 of the bylaws, which states the following: 
Art. 10. It is the prerogative of I and, only by express delegation, to certify, when 
necessary, the aptitude of sportsmen in thel I especially those 
considered by specific legislation on and, consequently, declare them 
fit to participate in ______ 
However, article 10 is in Chapter III of the bylaws, which is titled "Definition and Composition of 
Tournaments." This context, and the plain language of article 10, reveal that it refers 
not to membership in the organization, but certification to participate in tournaments. More 
importantly, neither the Petitioner nor the Director make reference to the sections of the bylaws which 
do pertain to membership in the organization. An entire section of the bylaws, "Title III -Members," 
is devoted to this subject, and article 48 in that section indicates that there are several types of 
members, one of which is "athletes." Article 57, which is italicized in the English translation but not 
in the Portuguese original document, states the following: 
3 
The application for membership by athletes directly affiliated with the 
CONFEDERATION must be signed by the applicant and contain a direct statement 
that he or she fulfills the requirements for the issuance of the Certificate of Registration 
with thel and agrees to comply with thel Bylaws and regulations. 
Therefore, per article 57 in thel I bylaws, an athlete need only submit a statement in order to apply 
for membership in the organization. As there is no evidence that this task requires outstanding 
achievement, the Petitioner has not established that outstanding achievement is a requirement for 
membership inl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes two conflicting arguments. First, he states that in order to become a 
member inl l"one must compete for a position on the team and be given the opportunity 
to compete nationally and internationally." This statement appears to be based upon the letter from I in which he states that "I am able to decide if the athlete will be compatible to join the 
confederation, that means that the athlete needs to be constant! competitions, with a 
minimum expertise and awards." However, it is membershi in which the Petitioner claims as 
qualifying, not membership on any particular team. Despite ___ s letter, there is no provision 
in the bylaws concerning membership which requires that athletes compete at the national or 
international level. 
Second, the Petitioner states that to become a member, an athlete must present a list of documents, 
including several statements, proof of address, judicial permit, and identity documents. While this list 
may include documentation not specifically covered in article 57, he makes no reference to evidence 
of the source of this list. More importantly, the Petitioner does not suggest that the production of these 
documents is an outstanding achievement in the field of I 
Turning to his claim as a member of the Petitioner refers to exhibits 48 to 50 of the RFE 
response on appeal. While the RFE exhibits number only 43, the original submission included 
evidence that the organization had certified him as al lfrom October 30, 2017. This 
evidence does not establish that he is a member of I Tn addition, the Petitioner submitted pages 
from the I !website which describe the association and its history, but do not address its 
membership requirements. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion 
through membership in either the orl I 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director noted that the I !website is not considered one of the qualifying types 
of media under this criterion, but did not provide an analysis or reasons for making this conclusion. 
However, we will initially address the first element of this criterion, whether the Petitioner has 
established that any of the material published on that website was about him. This evidence consists 
of three documents, submitted at exhibits 57, 58, and 59 of the original submission. The first article 
is about the 2012 Pan-American I IChampionship, and indicates that several of the 
association's younger athletes, including the Petitioner, achieved titles. It goes on to report the results 
4 
of other matches in the tournament, naming dozens of individuals. While the article gives a few words 
for each competitor
1 ("demonstrating a huge maturing [the Petitioner]"), it is not about any of them 
individually but the members' performance overall. 
The second and third articles posted to the website simply list the Petitioner's name in a group of 
athletes, and provide no comment at all regarding his background or performance as an athlete. As 
such, they are not about him but about the events in which the group of athletes participated. 
Other materials submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion include two screenshots from 
separate videos in which the Petitioner is pictured and identified. The first was published on the 
website of a Brazilian television channel called RecordTV, and the second was posted to what appears 
to be a personal Y ouTube channel. Although the Petitioner claims that he was interviewed as a 
expert in the first video which appears to relate to a news story involving! I and the title of the 
second concerns a tournament in I Brazil, neither is accompanied by written transcripts. 
The Petitioner's and his representative's descriptions of the content of these materials is not supported 
by documentary evidence in the record, and we are therefore unable to determine that the material 
published on these media is about the Petitioner. 
As the Petitioner has not shown that any of the published material in the record is about him, he has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
We agree with the Petitioner's statement on appeal that in order to meet this criterion, a noncitizen 
must show that their contributions are both original and of major significance, as shown by impact or 
influence on the field. After review of the evidence submitted in support of his claim to this criterion, 
we conclude that he has not demonstrated his impact or influence upon the field of I 
The Petitioner asserts that he made an original contribution by starting his ownl I club 
and teaml with his father. A letter from his father and 
business registration documents show that he served as this organization's Technical Director or 
Sports Director from its inception in late 2012 until January 2017. His father indicates that in this role 
he "helped organize" events, tournaments, training, and financial and legal administration. He also 
served asl I instructor, training several police agencies as well as athletes, and represented the 
club as an athlete. The Petitioner's role in providing training to law enforcement agencies is 
supported by letters from two of those agencies. 
As stated by the Director in his decision, the evidence does not show that the Petitioner is or was a 
founder of I only that he served as one of its officers and as I I instructor. In 
addition, his father does not state in his letter that he created the I team that represented the 
club, only that he trained athletes and represented the club as an athlete himself. The Petitioner has 
therefore not shown that he made an original contribution to 
Further, even if the Petitioner had been able to establish that he was a founder of I I he has 
not shown that the creation of this organization was of major significance to the overall field of 
5 
While the evidence establishes that I I trained at least two law 
enforcement agencies in Brazil and trained athletes, and thus had some impact on the field in that 
country, the evidence does not show, for instance, that its training methods were adopted by other I I trainers in Brazil or elsewhere, or that the Petitioner otherwise influenced the field as a whole. 
In addition, while the Petitioner may have trained _______ athletes and law enforcement 
officers, the record does not establish that they were unusually successful in their respective roles or 
constituted a significant portion of those active in those roles, or that their collective training somehow 
impacted the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he made contributions as a I athlete, noting that he 
represented Brazil at internationall I competitions. However, he does not explain how winning 
awards at international competitions contributed to the field or influenced or impacted it in a 
significant way. I s letter states that the Petitioner has "been doing a lot of things to help 
our sport to keep growing," but he does not provide details about how or how much the Petitioner has 
helped to grow the sport, and the record lacks evidence to support this statement. 
Based upon the foregoing analysis of the Petitioner's contributions as both an athlete and a trainer, we 
conclude that he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to his leading or critical for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach that additional ground. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
reserve this issue. 1 Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 We also reserve the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States would provide a substantial prospective 
benefit. Id. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16159429 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from 
that decision, as well as three subsequent motions to reopen. The matter is now before us on a fourth 
motion to reopen, in which the Petitioner submits evidence intended to meet two of the evidentiary 
criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 XA) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that 
satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening, a petitioner must not 
only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, 
Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as a barista at his own cafe, and has also won prizes at various competitions. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; and 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to prizes and participation 
as a judge. On appeal, and in subsequent motions to reopen, the Petitioner has attempted to show that 
he also satisfies the criterion relating to published material. Also, in his third motion, the Petitioner 
made a new claim to have satisfied a fourth criterion, pertaining to a high salary or remuneration in 
relation to others in the field. We dismissed the Petitioner's third motion, citing two reasons. 
2 
First, the Petitioner claims that articles posted on a "coffee blog" called Sprudge are qualifying 
published material about him. We determined that, while the Petitioner had submitted subjective 
assessments indicating that "Sprudge is popular with its fellow coffee b logs," the Petitioner had not 
submitted circulation figures or other evidence to show that Sprudge "qualifies as a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media." 
Second, we concluded that, while the Petitioner had documented the total income of a caf e that he 
operated in Iran from 2009 to 2014, he had not submitted documentary evidence to show that he 
"earned a high salary when compared to that of other baristas or cafe owners" as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitionerdoesnotcontestthis determination in his latest 
motion, and therefore we need not discuss this issue further. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner submits a printout from Sprudge, which provides information about 
the website and twice refers to the website as ''the world's most popular coffee publication." As we 
observed in an earlier decision, promotional self-descriptions have negligible weight as evidence. See 
Braga v. Poulos, CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd 317 F. 
App 'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we "need not, and indeed should not, rely on [a publisher's] 
self-serving assertion" about the significance of a given publication). 
The new printout does not establish that Sprudge is a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media, and the Petitioner does not identify any error in our previous discussion of the 
publication. The new printout does not show proper cause to reopen the proceeding. 
The Petitioner also attempts to meet a fifth, previously unclaimed evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), relating to membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The submitted evidence consists of a translated copy of a September 2020 letter, appointing the 
Petitioner to a two-year term as the education and research director of the ______ 
from September 2020 to September 2022, and translated background information about the 
identifying the Petitioner as one of ten members of its board of directors. 
The evidence does not establish that either the o or its board of directors is an association which 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. Also, the Petitioner must establish eligibility as of the petition's filing date. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )( 1 ). Here, the !appointment letter is dated September 2020, nearly four years after the 
Petitioner filed the petition in December 2016. 
Because of the above deficiencies, the new evidence regarding the Petitioner' s m membership does 
not show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion, or estab lishedeligibility 
for the classification he seeks. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20221656 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 06, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider , which we dismissed 
because it was filed untimely . Subsequently , the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we rejected 
as improperly filed, and three subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also 
dismissed. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issues on motion are whether the Petitioner: (1) has established that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in dismissing his fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider, and (2) has 
submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening. 
A. Procedural History 
As noted, this matter is before us on a fifth motion to reopen and reconsider. To provide context for 
the Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we summarize the procedural history below: 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he 
would submit a brief and additional evidence within 30 days. The record does not 
show, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he submitted those materials within 
that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, c1tmg the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. 
2 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the 
Petitioner addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in 
filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations provide no provision for a petitioner 
to appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking 
both to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new 
evidence in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 
2019 motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i), but we also 
determined that the Petitioner had not submitted new facts on motion to overcome 
our summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. In our 
decision, we also briefly addressed some of the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
in support of his claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, and explained why this 
evidence did not satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
March 2021 The Petitioner filed a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
July 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our February 2021 decision. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's current motion includes several supporting exhibits: including a copy of his initial 
appeal filed in September 2018 (which consisted solely of a Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion 
and a check for the filing fee); a complete copy of his first combined motion to reopen and reconsider 
(a Form 1-290B with a brief and supporting exhibits) filed in January 2019; a copy of our October 
2019 decision rejecting the Petitioner's appeal of our June 2019 decision on jurisdictional grounds; 
copies of several USCIS receipt notices; and a copy of a letter from our office dated September 25, 
2019, which indicates that it was sent in response to correspondence we received from the Petitioner 
3 
concerning our June 2019 decision. All of the submitted documents were already in the record of 
proceeding and therefore do not introduce new facts that would meet the requirements of a motion to 
reopen. 
As discussed in our prior decisions, which we incorporate here by reference, the Petitioner has 
repeatedly requested that we reopen his appeal and address the merits of his claim that he meets the 
eligibility requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability at section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically 
any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. In September 
2018, the Petitioner filed an I-290B that was not accompanied by a statement identifying the basis for 
the appeal. Although he indicated on the Form I-290B filed that he would provide a brief and/or 
additional evidence to our office in order to meet this requirement, the record reflects that he did not 
do so. As we explained in our prior decisions, the only way the Petitioner may succeed on a motion 
and have his appeal reopened is to cure the deficiencies that led to the summary dismissal of his appeal. 
Absent evidence that he submitted a brief or other statement identifying the basis for his appeal of the 
Director's decision within 30 days of filing his appeal in September 2018, the Petitioner cannot 
establish proper cause to reopen that appeal. 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner now states that he did in fact mail 
a brief to our office within 30 days of filing his initial appeal in September 2018. He does not submit 
any evidence, such as proof of mailing or a copy of the brief, in support of his claim. Instead, he 
submits a copy of his initial motion to reopen and reconsider filed in January 2019, asserting that his 
brief in support of the appeal was "reiterated" in the brief he submitted on motion. The Petitioner's 
unsupported claim that he timely submitted a brief in support of his September 2018 appeal does not 
provide proper cause for reopening his appeal. Even if we accepted his assertion that he timely 
submitted a brief, the record would still be deficient because he does not provide a copy of the brief 
that he claims to have mailed. Without a copy of the claimed brief, we cannot determine whether it 
identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed, and the 
regulations would still require summary dismissal of the appeal. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that, in our decision summarily dismissing the appeal, we advised him that 
he could file a motion to reopen and/or reconsider. As reflected in the procedural history summarized 
above, he filed an untimely motion in response to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Although we 
initially dismissed the motion as untimely, we later reviewed the motion to reopen on its merits after 
exercising our discretion to excuse the late filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). However, as discussed 
in our July 2020 decision, the motion to reopen did not include evidence showing proper cause to 
reopen the appeal because it did not include new facts or evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner 
had filed a brief or other statement in support of the appeal, or otherwise demonstrating that the 
summary dismissal of the appeal was not warranted. The purpose of a motion following the dismissal 
of an appeal is to address issues raised in the appellate decision, not to revisit the Director's initial 
adverse decision. 
Finally, the Petitioner addresses correspondence he received from this office, dated September 25, 
2019. In that correspondence, we acknowledged receipt of a letter from the Petitioner relating to his 
first motion to reopen and reconsider with receipt number, which we had dismissed as untimely filed 
4 
in June 2019. 1 Our correspondence refers to the filing in question as an "untimely appeal" and 
indicates that it was being returned to the service center, which would determine whether it met the 
requirements of a motion, pursuant to 8 C.F.R.§ 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(2). Regretfully, this 
correspondence appears to have been issued in error. Although the Petitioner has filed two appeals 
since the denial of his immigrant petition, the first one was summarily dismissed for the reasons 
discussed above, and the second appeal (filed in response to the dismissal of the first combined motion) 
was rejected on jurisdictional grounds because there is no regulatory provision that allows us to review 
an appeal of one of our own decisions. The record reflects that the Petitioner has not filed an untimely 
appeal at any point in these proceedings, and we clarify that none of the Petitioner's previous filings 
have provided any basis to return this matter to the Nebraska Service Center for review. 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence 
demonstrating proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the current motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must demonstrate that our 
immediate prior decision (issued July 14, 2021), contained errors of fact, law, or policy that affected 
the outcome of the decision. 2 
In his brief, the Petitioner does not assert that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our 
decision dismissing his fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Rather, he claims for the 
first time that he did in fact submit a brief in support of his initial appeal of the Director's decision. 
As discussed above, he has not submitted any evidence in support of this claim. He emphasizes, in 
the alternative, that he has since raised alleged errors in the Director's decision in his subsequent 
motions. However, as explained, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's 
denial decision was in the appeal filed in September 2018 and the record reflects that he did avail 
himself of this opportunity when he filed his appeal. The filing of the appeal did not create or preserve 
any right for the Petitioner to dispute the Director's denial in subsequent motions. 
The Petitioner's motion, because it does not demonstrate that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in dismissing his fourth motion, does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. Rather, the 
Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope of this fifth 
motion. The Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence sufficient to overcome our 
determination that summary dismissal was the proper, and required, outcome when presented with an 
appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. 
1 It appears that the conespondence from the Petitioner, dated July 18, 2019, was likely a statement he submitted in support 
of the appeal he filed on July 09, 2019. However, it contains no specific reference to his filing of that appeal. As noted, 
we rejected the Petitioner's second appeal as improperly filed in October 2019. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
5 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19336659 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 9, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal 
and three subsequent motions. The matter is now before us on a fourth motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In these proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's third motion, we determined that the 
Petitioner did not show that we erroneously applied law or policy in deciding that he did not meet the 
awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that we erred in reserving a determination on his intent to 
continue to work in his area of expertise under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse decision. Accordingly, 
we examine any new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissing his third motion. 
Thus, the issue before us is whether we erred in determining that he did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing his prior motion to reconsider. 
In the current motion, the Petitioner submits an almost identical brief from his third motion. See 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process 
by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally 
alleging error in the prior decision). Here, our most recent decision thoroughly analyzed and explained 
why the indicated evidence and claimed arguments did not meet the regulatory requirements. Because 
he provides the same assertions with essentially the same brief, which we have previously and 
carefully addressed, the Petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our 
prior decision dismissing his third motion. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing how 
we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a 
ground to reconsider our decision. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his current 
motion meets the requirements for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, 
we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20480162 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 12, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist who has displayed her work internationally. She also commercially 
markets her designs and illustrations on paper and stationery products. The Petitioner intends to 
continue working as a visual artist in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) , and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to leading or 
critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) . The 
Petitioner has not pursued her initial claim that she meets the criterion relating to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), nor does she contest the Director's 
decision relating to this criterion on appeal. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not 
address this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities . The Petitioner's 
2 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner claims that she performed in a leading and critical role for 
The Petitioner submitted letters from I Director, who explained thatl I I is a company registered in both Venezuela and the United States that produces __ 
products, such as _______ She further states that the Petitioner is co-director of the 
company, as well as the company's lead and sole artist, and that the Petitioner's original designs and 
illustrations are used on the company's! I The Petitioner also submitted a copy of 
the company's registration documents and bylaws, which indicate that the Petitioner is the majority 
partner/shareholder of the company. This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
plays a leading or critical role for I 
However, the Petitioner has not established that I has a distinguished reputation. I I states in her letter that the company has acquired numerous contracts with companies such 
as I 11 andl I who have purchased the Petitioner's 
artistic designs or commissioned unique works. She concludes that the acquisition of ongoing 
contracts with such prestigious clients "is a marker of a company with a highly esteemed and 
distinguished reputation in the industry." However, these statements are not supported by 
independent, documentary evidence. Although the record includes testimonial letters from these 
clients praising the Petitioner's artwork and artistic vision, and confirming their acquisition of her 
work, these letters do not speak to the company's reputation beyond the personal opinions of some of 
its clients. Further, although the record contains media articles complementing the Petitioner's 
achievements as a visual artist and acknowled in that her work is commercially marketed I 
these articles comment upon the 
Petitioner's reputation, but not on the company's reputation. The evidence is therefore insufficient to 
establish thatl I has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she is I I and that the company is just a legal medium 
through which she operates. She states that "if it is established that I equals [the Petitioner], 
one and other are interchangeable, then I have submitted enough documentation of interviews, press 
releases, followers on social network, published books, that it does have the necessary recognition by 
itself" In order to fulfill this criterion, however, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she "performed 
in a leading or critical role/or organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 
( emphasis added). The Petitioner, as an individual artist, is not an "organization or establishment" as 
contemplated by the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Here, the 
Petitioner has not submitted independent evidence sufficient to establish thatl I has a 
distinguished reputation, as required. While the Petitioner documented her personal career 
achievements and her reputation in the industry, the record is insufficient to demonstrate thatl I 
is recognized as having a reputation marked by eminence, distinction or excellence as required by this 
criterion. 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not provided evidence establishing her eligibility 
for this criterion. 1 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994) ( considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner submitted numerous urchase orders and invoices from 2014, which demonstrate the 
purchase of ___________________ by I The 
Petitioner also submitted a 2019 printout from www.payscale.com which documents the average 
annual salary for a visual artist. In denying the petition, the Director determined that the purchase 
orders and invoices were insufficient to establish the Petitioner's earnings and to show that her income 
was significantly high in relation to others in the field as required by this criterion. Specifically, the 
Director noted that the purchase orders and invoices did not reflect compensation to the Petitioner , 
and therefore were not sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's salary or renumeration for services. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's finding. The Petitioner's name is not depicted on the 
purchase orders or invoices to establish that she is the intended recipient. Rather, the invoices are 
billed by I without specifying that the Petitioner was the supplier of the services represented 
or the intended recipient of the amounts due. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the invoices and 
purchase orders are sufficient evidence of her earnings as all of her operations are done through 
and she receives the majority of the profits rather than a traditiona l salary. 
While her assertions are noted, the Petitioner has not supplemented the record with evidence of the 
actual salary or other remuneration that she has commanded for her services. The record is not 
supported by verifiable business or personal tax documentation, and none of the evidence the 
Petitioner offered confirms the amount of compensation provided to her by I in any given 
year. Moreover, based on her assertion that she received the "majority" of the company's profits, the 
amounts listed on the purchase orders and invoices do not necessarily match the amounts that the 
Petitioner actually received, and therefore do not serve as a basis for comparison to the remuneration 
of other visual artists absent additional evidence pertaining to her actual amount of compensation. 
The record is insufficient to allow us to determine the amount of the Petitioner's actual income or 
remuneration, and therefore it cannot establish her eligibility under this criterion. Without a proper 
basis for comparison and evidence showing her comprehensive earnings during a sustained period 
1 We acknowledge the Petitioner's initial claims that she also performed in a leading or critical role forl I clients, 
including U l andl I as well as for an international art fair. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not pursue these claims regarding her role with these organizations. Consequently, we deem 
these claims to be waived and will not address them in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
4 
predating the filing of the petition, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USC IS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'l v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 
2021); Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajfd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a skilled visual artist and that she has gained recognition for her unique 
designs and illustrations. But she has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of 
sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover , the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20299027 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 16,2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist who has competed in kickboxing and Muay Thai, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision in December 2019, and three 
subsequent motions: a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, dismissed in August 2020; a 
motion to reconsider, dismissed in April 2021; and a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, 
dismissed in September 2021. The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 XA) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the ten lesser initial evidentiary criteria, pertaining 
to participation as a judge, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In dismissing the appeal, we 
withdrew the Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and concluded that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the claimed criteria. We dismissed the first motion, concluding that 
the Petitioner requested us to reconsider our decision without showing how we erroneously applied 
law or policy. Further, while he provided additional documentation, we determined that the Petitioner 
did not establish that the new evidence demonstrated his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
We dismissed the second motion because the Petitioner had simply repeated prior claims and 
arguments, without identifying any errors oflaw or policy in our first motion decision. We dismissed 
2 
the third motion because the Petitioner "did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior 
motion," and he did not establish the relevance of a newly submitted letter. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner submits no new evidence, and he states no new facts. Instead, he 
repeats previous assertions that do not overcome earlier conclusions. The bulk of the Petitioner's latest 
statement repeats, largely word-for-word, the Petitioner's assertions in prior submissions, including 
earlier briefs and his response to a request for evidence from 2018.1 Repetition of prior claims does 
not introduce new facts into the record, and does not show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
Similarly, a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior appellate 
decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues that were previously decided in 
error or overlooked in our prior decision, or must show how a change in law materially affects our 
prior decision. See Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). In earlier decisions, we have 
already advised the Petitioner that repetition of previous claims in this mannerwillnotestablish proper 
cause for reopening or reconsideration. The proper subject of the Petitioner's latest, fourth motion is 
our September 2021 decision dismissing his third motion. The Petitioner does not identify any specific 
errors in our September 2021 decision. Rather, he continues to generally assert eligibility on grounds 
already considered in our earlier decisions. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our prior 
decision was based on an incmrect application of law or policy, and the evidence provided in suppmt of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 At times, the latest statement indicates that a particular document "is attached," butthis is apparentlyanearlierreference 
to an attachment to an earlier motion, which the Petitioner appears to have copied with the sunounding language. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20509233 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a children's book author, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because we determined on appeal that the Petitioner did meet three of the 
evidentiary criteria, we remanded the petition for the Director to conduct a final merits determination. 
The Director denied the petition and the matter is again before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021)(determiningthat 
EB-I visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 5 96 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players inKoreanhistmy" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record must demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of his field. See section203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In our prior decision, we explained that the record established that the Petitioner met the three criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv), and, as a result, we remanded the matter to the Director to 
perform a final merits determination. However, in addition to providing contradictory statements 
regarding whether the Petitioner had met three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x), the Director did not properly conduct such a determination. 
While we may agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's participation as a judge for a 
children's story writing competition in 2007 is not indicative of either sustained national or 
2 
international acclaim or being among the small percentage at the very top of his field, the Director 
must still examine and weigh the evidence related to the remaining criteria in the final merits 
discussion. Because the Director did not consider this evidence in the analysis, the decision did not 
sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he is an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director did not provide a 
complete analysis of the submitted evidence and full explanation of the reasons for denial in the final 
merits detennination, we will withdraw the decision and remand the matter for fmiher review and 
entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The Decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19999659 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional auto racing team, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate the 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the beneficiary 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows the beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary has worked for the Petitioner as a engineer since 2016. __________ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Beneficiary met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that the Beneficiary fulfills the leading or 
critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), discussed further below. 
Because the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies the minimum requirement of at least 
three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Beneficiary has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone does not establish that the person in fact meets the 
requirements for classification as a person with extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), supra (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary earned a Bachelor of Science degree (2012) in mechanical 
engineering froml I University of Engineering and Science, and both a Master of Science 
degree (2015 and a Doctor of Philoso h de ree (2018) in mechanical engineering from the 
University ____________ As indicated above, the Beneficiary has been 
employed as a en ineer for the Petitioner since 2016. He has also served as an associate graduate 
faculty member a bebeginning in 2020. The Beneficiary has judged the work of others, authored 
scholarly articles, and performed in a critical role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
personal and professional achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Beneficiary had participated in evaluating three technical papers for Society of 
Automotive Engineers (SAE) meetings at the time of filing. 5 The Petitioner, however, did not 
establish that the level and frequency of the Beneficiary's peer review service reflects the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In many scientific 
and academic fields, peer review is a routine element of the process by which articles are selected for 
publication or for presentation at conferences. Occasional participation in the peer review process 
does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, 
such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests 
for distinguished journals or conferences relative to others in his field, served in editorial positions for 
highly regarded journals or publications, 6 or chaired prominent evaluation committees for reputable 
conferences, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary's peer review experience for SAE 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established the beneficiary's required high level 
of expe1tise of the immigrant classification). 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner presented a February 2021 letter from SAE 
indicating that the Beneficiary reviewed three additional technical papers in 2021 after the petition was filed. The 
Petitioner, however, must establish the Beneficiary's eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
6 In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a September 16, 2020 email from an "assistant from Editorial Office of 
American Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering" asking the Beneficiary to consider joining as an editorial 
board member/reviewer. The Beneficiary received this invitation after the petition was filed. Again, eligibility must be 
established at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Nevertheless, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary 
has judged the work of others for the American Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering or that serving on its 
editorial board is indicative of national or international acclaim. 
3 
places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, the Beneficiary was appointed to a doctoral dissertation committee for a mechanical 
engineering student at in August 2020, but the appointment form does not indicate the dates 
that he performed an evaluation of the student's work. 7 Nevertheless, the Beneficiary's judging 
experience forl !involves evaluating the work of a graduate students rather than established, 
recognized professionals. Cf., Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Commr. 1994) (USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991 ). The Petitioner did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's experience in judging 
graduate students compares to others at the very top of his field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's instances of judging contribute 
to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from the field based on his 
work judging graduate students at his alma mater or reviewing several technical papers for SAE. 
Moreover, serving on a thesis or dissertation committee, or as a peer reviewer, does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's judging experience 
places him among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 8 Although 
the Petitioner submitted information from Google Scholar indicating that the Beneficiary has authored 
11 articles since 2016, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's publication record is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor did the Petitioner submit evidence 
showing the significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his overall publications compare to 
others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's published and 
presented work can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on 
the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations 
for articles authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized 
7 The RFE response included documentation indicating 
that the Beneficiary was also appointed to a master's thesis 
committee for a mechanical engineering student at in October 2020, but this appointment post-dates the filing of 
the petition. Eligibility, however. must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). 
8 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). supra (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
and that other mechanical engineers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final 
merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner 
provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that the Beneficiary's published material has been 
cited 74 times, with his two highest cited articles receiving 25 and 16 citations, respectively. While 
the citation of his work shows that some in his field have referenced it, the Petitioner has not 
established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim. 9 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to the Beneficiary's work represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE included invitations from various journals 
and conferences asking the Beneficiary to submit papers for publication or presentation, or to review 
manuscript submissions. The majority of these invitations post-date the filing of the petition. 
Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Nonetheless, the Petitioner did not establish their requirements for selecting authors or reviewers, and 
therefore we are unable to evaluate the Beneficiary's invitations in light of those requirements. 
Moreover, receiving invitations to review manuscripts, or to submit articles for publication or 
presentation based on subject matter expertise, would not provide strong support for the petition, 
because possessing expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than being nationally 
or internationally recognized, or an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to his roles, the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role as a engineer for the 
Petitioner, as well as served as an associate graduate faculty member atl I after his graduation. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary received any national or international 
attention from his positions beyond his employer or alma mater. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's roles with the Petitioner 
and I I have earned distinction, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary's professional career spanning approximately six years represents a 
career of acclaimed work and sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The record does not reflect that any of his roles resulted in widespread 
acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall field 
considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For the 
reasons discussed below, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
9 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated how citation to the Beneficiary's articles, individually or collectively, compares to 
those who are nationally or internationally recognized in his field. 
5 
The Petitioner presented documentation reflecting that the Beneficiary received a Certificate of 
Recognition from the Center for Graduate Life a (2015) for "outstanding contributions to 
graduate student life," but the evidence does not show that this certificate is indicative of national or 
international acclaim in the field of mechanical engineering. In addition, the Petitioner provided two 
Certificates of Appreciation awarded to the Beneficiary by SAE "in recognition of outstanding 
service" as a presenter in 2018 and 2019. While the 2018 and 2019 SAE conferences acknowledged 
the Beneficiary's participation as a presenter, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
garnered national or international acclaim based on his receipt of these two appreciation certificates, 
or that they signify an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided evidence of the Beneficiary's membership with the SAEI I 
the SAE 
_____ ; and the SAE While the record includes a 
letter from SAE stating that those considered for membership in technical committees and tasks forces 
"must be competent and authoritative in the field(s) outlined by the committee scope/charter," the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's memberships required outstanding achievements, 
are somehow remarkable, or otherwise garnered sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary's memberships resulted in widespread or significant attention. See 56 Fed. Reg at 30704. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish the prestigious nature of the Beneficiary's SAE committee 
and task force memberships, or how his memberships reflect being among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Additionall , the record includes a video screenshot from the Petitioner's Facebook a e I 
an article posted on the Petitioner's website, and an 
article from the College of Engineering website I However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this coverage of the 
Beneficiary's work limited to the media of his employer and alma mater signifies national or 
international acclaim in the field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner rovided documentation of a Top Gear episode 
2016), a Chris Harris Drives web video review 2016), and a YouTube video 
2015) featuring the ____________ but there is no indication that this material is 
about the Beneficiary or that it specifically identifies him While the RFE response includes a 
2013 article from www.drivesrt.com discussing! ____________ involvement with 
thel racing program, the Beneficiary is only briefly mentioned in the article along 
with two other I I participants. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
aforementioned coverage, without any further material since 2016, is consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show how the Beneficiary's overall media 
coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on the Beneficiary and his specific activities reflects a career 
of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The commentary for the proposed 
regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that 
6 
a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring 
the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 
56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Beneficiary's minimal media exposure does not 
meet this very high standard. 
Finally, the record includes recommendation letters discussing the Beneficiary's work for the 
Petitioner and his graduate research projects atl I 1° For example, regarding the Beneficiary's 
contributions toward the development of I 2022 I I race car, 
indicated that the Beneficia erformed 
Likewise, asserted that the Beneficiar 
rovided Similar! , 
stated that the Beneficiary's 
With respect to the Beneficiary's graduate research projects at I ll I asserted that 
the Beneficia and two other students supported "the I I activities for the design of 
2016 and develo ed "an innovative a roach for the I I design, using 
different to achieve the optimal! I 
performance." In addition stated that he met the Beneficiary while "conducting 
research related tol !vehicle safety at I noticed the contributions [the Beneficiary] 
was making to both land the field of _________ at that time." 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner, however, do not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary is 
viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary has made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a 
career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The letters describe the 
Beneficiary's work without showing how it rises to a level of major significance in the field and 
represents an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the 
Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. 
Here, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20181351 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in sustainable development 
and sustainable design solutions. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S. C. § 115 3 (b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for five 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on awards received by ' Asia 
Pacific Leadershi in Green Building Awards 2018 from the World Green Building Council, 
(Platinum Certification from. the Indian Green Building Council), ___ 
__,_2;;;;.,018 Architectural Design Award from the Architecture Masterprize ), ______ 
2nd Award at the International Architecture Awards 2015 from Architecture Podium), 
__________ ___,(Certificate of Honorable Mention at the Re-Thinking the Future -
Sustainability Awards 2014), and (Jury Commendation from Design and Architecture 
A ward The record describes I I as: 
Headquartered in , I I is a company founded on the idea of 
environmentally conscious living. With 20 full time staff, the goal of the organization 
is to develop communities which are self-reliant in seven strands of sustainability -
energy, food, water, air, animals, people and shelter. The project - - iis an 
amalgam between I !environments in what is an innovative paradigm that 
we call I with a goal to make the development a !community 
by using an innovative credit system for the seven strands. 1 
1 See screenshot from worldgbc .org. 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's 
receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 
Here, the Petitioner's evidence shows that the company or its project received the various awards 
rather than his receipt of them. In fact, none of the awarding documentation mention the Petitioner or 
credit him as a recipient for any of the awards. Because he did not establish his receipt of the awards, 
we need not determine their national or international recognition for excellence in the field and reserve 
this issue. 4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 5 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The record reflects that he submitted nine articles, in which only four articles contained the required 
title, date, and author of the material. 6 Moreover, none of the articles reflect published material about 
the Petitioner. Instead, the articles reflect media coverage about I I In fact, the 
Petitioner is never mentioned in seven of the articles. In the other two articles, the Petitioner is only 
quoted in providing background information relating to _____ 7 Because he did not 
demonstrate that his evidence qualifies as published material about him relating to his work in the 
field, we need not determine the professional, major trade, or other major media status of the 
publications and reserve this issue. 8 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 See articles from ],I , and _________ 
7 See articles from and _____ 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for this criterion based on _____ In order 
to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the work that was displayed is the person's work 
product, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 9 Although he provided evidence 
indicating that he was one of the founders of the communal project, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that I I was displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase. He did not specifically 
identify an artistic venue that displayed the project. In fact. according to the submitted documentation, I I was "[b]uilt onl I land in in " which the 
Petitioner did not show represents an artistic exhibition or showcase. 10 Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that building a Ion the outskirts of a city involves displaying his work product at an 
artistic venue consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, 
and display. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 11 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
9 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
10 See article from 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19646197 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a writer and filmmaker whose credits include novels, short and medium stories, and 
documentary projects, many of which focus on I political and social issues. He states that he 
intends to continue to create documentaries and other written works, including his autobiography, in 
the United States. 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and published 
material, and the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies these two 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to judging 
the work of others, original contributions, and artistic display under 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and 
(vii), respectively. He further argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international 
acclaim, and that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor . 
For the reasons discussed below, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner does 
not meet at least three of the criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence of participation as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization, whether as an individual or as a member of a panel. In 
su ort of these re uirements, the Petitioner claimed that he "was invited to be a jury member at the 
Film Festival. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter from ____ the artistic director of Film Festival. states 
that the Petitioner "was a member of the jury o during the 
edition of the Festival," which took place in from __ 2009, to ___ 2009. 
2 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the submitted letter was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. In response, the Petitioner submitted a second 
letter froml I dated February 8, 2021, who stated that he was "confirming the presence of 
[the Petitioner] as a special guest" at the I I editions of the I I Film Festival in 2008 
and 2010, respective! Althou h the letter indicated that the Petitioner "was a jury member in the 
debate on the new in 2008, it also stated that he "participated in the prestigious 
section,__ ______ " In conclusion,! I stated "We are still very grate ful to [ the 
Petitioner] for take part of our Festival [sic], not only as a talented and brave writer, but also for having 
implemented, in particular, independent documentary filmmaking, not only " The Petitioner 
also submitted a screenshot from www.filmfestivals.com which provided a summary of the I I 
Film Festival, as well as a copy of an article published onl in whichl is 
interviewed about the festival. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the evidence submitted was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner had in fact judged the work of others in his field as contemplated by 
this criterion. The Director noted the requirement of "extensive documentation," as well as the very 
high standard set for individuals of extraordinary ability noted in the comments to the implementing 
regulations, 1 and found that the Petitioner had not submitted substantive evidence of his participation 
as a judge of the work of others in his field or an allied field which is "consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director "wrongly heightened the evidentiary threshold by 
requiring extra substantive evidence of 'documentation that will be able to assist us in whether you 
served as a judge and at what level,' such as 'judging slips event programs identifying the beneficiary 
as a judge, or a judge's credential from the events."' He further argues that his activities are consistent 
with Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115; Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994); and 
Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339. 
Preliminarily, we note that the issue of whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in the 
sustained national and international acclaim required for this classification is an evaluation to be made 
in the final merits determination in cases where the individual has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); this standard should not be applied to individual evidentiary 
criteria. We acknowledge the Director's erroneous reference to this language; however, the decision 
otherwise references and discusses the plain language of this criterion as the basis for the denial and, 
accordingly, we view this error as harmless. Moreover, we exercise de nova review of all issues of 
fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means 
that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. 
In contrast to aforementioned legal decisions relied upon by the Petitioner, the Director's 
determination under the judging criterion in this matter was not based on the Petitioner's inability to 
demonstrate that his participation was the result of his having extraordinary ability or indicative of 
national or international acclaim. Rather, the Director determined that the documentation submitted 
by the Petitioner in support of his eligibility under this criterion lacked sufficient details regarding his 
judging activities. 
1 The Director cited to 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991) in support of this statement. 
3 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the initial letter submitted from I but sought further 
evidence to show that in his claimed role as "member of the jury of L I I I in 2009, the Petitioner judged the work of others in his field or an allied field. In response, 
the Petitioner asserted submitted a second letter froml I stating that the Petitioner was a 
special guest at thel I editions of the festival in 2008 and 2010, respectivel and that he 
served as a jury member "in the debate on the new for the 
section in 2008. The Director concluded that this statement, along with prior statement 
regarding the Petitioner's claimed jury service in 2009, was insufficient to satisfy this criterion.2 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's determination. There is no documentary evidence in the 
record showing the specific material judged by the Petitioner at in 2008 or 2009. Although 
the letters indicate that he juded and "served as a jury member in 
the debate on the ne ______ the record is devoid of additional evidence regarding these 
events. Merely submitting statements asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge the work of 
others without evidence showing who he judged and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. 
For example, rather than submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a jury member for I I and "the debate on the new 
the Petitioner instead submitted letters from I I attesting to the 
Petitioner's involvement. Aside froml claim that the Petitioner was a jury member for 
each of these events, there is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific duties, 
assessments, and the names of the individuals whose work he evaluated. For these reasons, we find I I letters alone insufficient to verify the Petitioner's participation as a jury member, and 
he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Additionally, the record lacks official competition rules for the preceding events indicating the specific 
responsibilities for a juror, and there is no evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged 
the work of individuals in the same or an allied field. For example,! indicates that the 
Petitioner served as a jury member "in the 'debate' on the new as he participated 
in the ______ section "dedicated to promoting dialogue between the I I 
through cultural events and quality works." Absent additional documentation, it is unclear if the 
"debate" referenced here actually required the Petitioner to judge the work of individuals, such as 
assigning points or determining winners, rather than merely moderating or engaging in discussions 
with others in his field. Moreover) I provides no additional detail regarding the Petitioner's 
participation in the I portion ofl I As constituted, the record 
does not establish the nature of his participation in the preceding events, the names of the individuals 
whose work he judged, the competitive divisions or categories to which he was assigned, or the 
selection criteria for awards. Merely submitting letters stating he was a jury member, without evidence 
demonstrating who he judged or the nature of the events, is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
regulatory criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
2 No further information regarding the Petitioner's claimed service as a jury member for in 2009 was submitted. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends primarily that his 
authorship of various literary works, and several reference letters commenting on such works, 
demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of 
his literary works through recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do 
not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance . In general, 
the letters recount the Petitioner's literary achievements but do not demonstrate that his contributions 
in the literary field have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Director discounted and misconstrued the expert opinion letters as they pertain to this criterion, 
and asserts that the Director's conclusion regarding whether his work was of major significance was 
erroneous . 
letters from, and background information about, several professors who 
specialize in the fields of studies and liliterature. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
a letter from Chancellor Chair for Teachin Across Disci lines at the University of 
and Professor Emeritus o Studies a University. co mmen ts on the Petitioner's novel, _________ 4 stating that this work "stunned 
literary scene" and introduced an iconoclastic literary style.I I Professor of 
Literature and Transcultural Studies atl University , states that the Petitioner is a 
prominent writer, scholar and documentary filmmaker whose works "have consistently 
engaged with national and international issues of politics, power, and moral responsibility ." She 
further notes that the Petitioner's works provide an alternative history and understanding of I 
culture. While the Petitioner has earned the admiration of these references , there is no evidence 
demonstrating that he has made original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
Although these references recognize the Petitioner's unique literary style, they do not provide the 
nexus between his literary style and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major 
significance in his field. 
I Department Head for the Collection Development and Technical Services and faculty 
librarian atl !University , quotes various commentaries on the Petitioner 's work in his 
letter, noting that the commentators praised the modernist themes and new developments reflected in 
the Petitioner's work. That the Petitioner has produced original work that others in the field have 
favorably reviewed is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance . I I 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume -6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significanc e in the field). 
4 We note that erroneously refers to the Petitioner's novel as _______ 
5 
also comments on the world-wide availability of the Petitioner's novels, noting that they are housed 
in a large number of U.S. libraries. HoweverJ I does not explain how the Petitioner's 
works being represented in U.S. libraries is having a discernable impact in his field. While any 
literature with exposure such as the Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, he must 
also demonstrate that his contributions are of major significance. I I indicates that the 
Petitioner's work is available outside of I but does not provide specific examples of how the 
Petitioner's work has substantially impacted the literary field, has influenced the work of other writers, 
or otherwise equates to an original contribution of major significance in the field. An individual must 
have demonstrably impacted his field in order to meet this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims that his documentary films are original contributions of major significance, 
but there is insufficient evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's films have been widely viewed 
by critics or audiences as an original contribution of major significance in the field. I I 
states that the Petitioner's films, like his literary works, have also been housed in leading U.S. 
academic libraries and have received positive reviews. In additionJ I states that several 
of the Petitioner's documentaries "are well known and respected." Here, however, the quoted letters 
demonstrate that some experts in the field are familiar with the Petitioner's films. But this familiarity 
does not establish that the Petitioner's contributions have been of major significance. Recognition 
does not necessarily equate to major significance in the field. 
Chair Professor Emeritus forl I Studies at the University of 
also comments on the Petitioner's films, noting that they "greatly enriched our understanding 
o and which are archives preserving the memory of events which otherwise 
would fall into oblivion once this generation will have passed away." Here, although I I 
praises the Petitioner's work, she simultaneously notes that his films will be 
beneficial to future generations "even if these documentaries are only known to a very limited number 
of people in the I I today." Contributions of major significance connotes 
that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. The record as constituted is insufficient to show that the 
Petitioner's documentary films have already significantly impacted the field or otherwise equate to 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also relies on a 2001 news article where I I writer I I refers to the 
Petitioner as a "modernist" writer and notes that his introduction of irony, sarcasm, and black humor 
into fiction "opened [her] eyes." While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work may have impacted 
this particular author, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to demonstrate that a good number of 
authors or filmmakers have been sufficiently influenced by his work such that it rises to the level of 
major significance in the field. This article does not describe how any of the Petitioner's original 
contributions in his field have resulted in a significant impact in his field as a whole, rather than 
personally on the writer being interviewed. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submits a letter from I I Director of Research Area on 
Politics, Society and Media at the I I who indicates that she is 
performing research focusing on political, economic, social, and technological developments in I 
and their global impacts. I I refers to the Petitioner as an "internationally renowned 
writer" and a "public intellectual," and states that "his eagerness and ability to inspire and moderate 
6 
discussions on contemporary societal and political issues in regard tol I but also on a more global 
scale, is of key value to me." Her praise of his work and her acknowledgement that his work is 
valuable to her falls short of demonstrating how any of the Petitioner's original contributions in his 
field have resulted in a significant impact in his field as a whole, rather than personally on 
I I 
The documentation discussed above does not provide a description of how the Petitioner's authored 
works or documentary films, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance 
with the regulation. The letters primarily contain broad attestations of the significance of the 
Petitioner's work without providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance . Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
Simply stating that the Petitioner's work has gained him national and international recognition or that 
it has majorly impacted the field ofl I contemporary literature or filmmaking is not sufficient. 
Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments, the documentation submitted does not 
establish that the Petitioner's works have had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner first asserted eligibility under this criterion in response to the RFE, where he claimed 
that his documentary filml lwas displayed at thel I Film Festival 
inl 2010. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner relied on I I second letter 
stating that he presented his documentary at the festival, as a well as a copy of a page from the festival's 
program brochure which provides an overview of the Petitioner's film. 
In determining that the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the requirements of this criterion, the 
Director found that the Petitioner's work did not fall into the "visual arts" such as painting, sculpting 
and photography, and further determined that the integrity of the Petitioner's evidence was 
questionable . On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determinations were erroneous, and 
states that he has satisfied this criterion by providing evidence that his work has been displayed at 
numerous film festivals. 
Preliminarily, we disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation 
renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work 
displayed be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
6 See id.; see also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Upon de nova 
review, however, we concur with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
provided sufficient evidence to meet this criterion. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that his documentary film was displayed 
at the Film Festival inl 12010 support of this assertion, he relies on a letter from I who states that "In thel 2010, of our I I Film Festival, [the Petitioner] 
returned to honor us with his extraordinary documentary .... " The Petitioner provided what appear 
to be excerpts from the festival's program, including a cover page, pages six through eight, and page 
80. Only page 80 makes reference to the Petitioner. This page lists the title of the Petitioner's film, 
along with additional details such as the film's format, running time, year of production, and brief plot 
synopsis. While this document provides details pertaining to the Petitioner's documentary, it is 
insufficient to establish that this film was actually screened or displayed at artistic venues or showcases 
as contemplated by the plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the excerpt from the Film Festival's program is a 
self-authenticating periodical under Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE) 902( 6), and the Director's decision 
to not afford evidentiary weight to this submission was erroneous. The Petitioner, however, has submitted 
only 4 pages of what appears to be a document of at least 80 pages, and the probative value of this 
incomplete document as evidence is therefore substantially diminished. Here, pages six through eight 
make no mention of the Petitioner or his film, and page 80 merely provides a brief overview of the 
Petitioner's film without providing any details regarding when and how this film was displayed, if at all. 
The Petitioner had additional time on appeal to submit more complete and persuasive evidence, but 
neglected to do so. 
Moreover, the Petitioner asserts for the first time on appeal that the display of his independent 
documentary I lat the Art M Museum in 2013 and thel I 
Art Festival in 2014 satisfies this criterion. However, we will not consider this claim for the first time on 
appeal as it was not presented before the Director. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on 
appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" 
before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Notwithstanding, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that he actually displayed his work at these events, nor did he 
provide evidence to demonstrate that these events constitute artistic exhibitions or showcases as required 
by this criterion. Similar to his claims regarding the display of his documentary film at the Film 
Festival in 2010, the record does not contain detailed, probative information to establish that he displayed 
these works in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence that meets the plain 
language requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
8 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17286250 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer of short films, commercials, and music videos, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1XA). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or in temational acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirements through receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award or meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a producer of television commercials, short films and music video who co-founded I a a production firn1 originally based in I, in 2011. He states 
that he intends to continue working as a producer in the United States. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorfoundthatthePetitionermettwo oftheevidentiarycrite1ia 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
and his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
he also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director regarding the display and judge criteria, but conclude that the Petitioner 
also meets at least one additional criterion and thus the initial evidentiary requirement for this 
classification. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner served as a member of the jury for the National Association of 
Advertisers (ANDA) awards in two years, 2011 and 2012. These awards were given in several 
1 In response to our request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner resta tedhis intent to work as an executive producer in the 
United States for I in FL, and also included an updated letter from the manager of this company dated 
January 20, 2022 which states his intent to offer the Petitioner a position. However, a search of the Florida Department of 
State, Division of Corporations website (sunbiz.org) on March 10, 2022 revealed that the company was voluntarily 
dissolved on March 16, 2021 because it did not haveanyoperatingactivities, andwasthereforeincapable ofofforingajob 
to the Petitioner on the date of the letter. As the only evidenceofthePetitioner's intent to continue working in his field in 
the United States consists of a fraudulent letter, he would be required to overcome this issue in any further proceedings in 
this matter. 
2 
categories to advertising agencies and production companies. While a letter from ANDA also invited 
him to serve as a jury member in the technical categories for these awards in 2015, this does not 
establish that participated as a judge in that year. In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article 
published inl lin 2012 which names him as one of nine jury members for an exhibition, I lwhich featured creative works in advertising. This evidence establishes that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that their work in the field was displayed at an exhibition 
or showcase, and that the exhibition or showcase was artistic in nature. In support of his claim under 
this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence that the short film for which he is credited as 
the executive producer, was screened at several international film festivals, including the 2018 I I International Film Festival. He also served as a producer for the short filml I I which was screened at several film festivals in 2000. This evidence establishes that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he is a founding partner of land has served 
as its executive producer since 2011, which establishes his leading role for the company. Additional 
evidence shows thatthe companyreceivedseveralANDAawards atthe gold, silver, and bronze levels 
between 2012 and 2016 in recognition of the commercials it produced. It was also ranked as one of 
the top four production companies inl for three years, from 2013 to 2015, by I 
magazine. As such, the Petitioner has established that he performed in a leading role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As shown above, the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3) 
and has thus established that he meets the initial evidence requirement. While he asserts that he also 
meets additional criteria, we need not consider those claims. Rather, we will consider the evidence 
submitted in support of those additional criteria together with the entirety of the record when 
conducting a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner 
has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
As noted above, the record shows that the Petitioner is one of three co-founders and the executive 
producer of I a I video and film production firm which has also expanded into 
other markets inl I The company's work has been recognized through its receipt of 
several ANDA awards from 2012 through 2016, although the evidence indicates that only recipients 
of gold awards received statuettes, and the agency did not win the top "producer of the year" award in 
3 
any year. While the Petitioner claims that his previous employer, I also received several 
ANDA awards during his employment there as an associate executive producer, the letter from ANDA 
refers only to awards received by I and unlike the awards received by I which are 
documented by both media and copies of plaques, the record does not include independent 
documentary evidence of the awards claimed to have been received by I We also note that 
an article from the website ofl I covering the 2016 ANDA awards lists a total of 142 that were 
granted that year at the gold, silver, and bronze level, which indicates that these are considerably less 
exclusive than the top "best agency" and "best producer" awards granted by ANDA. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also submits new evidence regarding silver and bronze I awards 
received by I at the !International Festival in 2013, 2014 and 2015, which receives 
entries from advertising agencies in several countries in the region. 
Although this evidence does not show that the Petitioner personally received either ANDA or 
awards, as he is not named as a recipient by either of the awarding organizations, it does show that the 
work of the company which he founded and leads has been recognized at some level by national 
organizations inl I and I 12 
The record also shows thatl was named as one of the top four production companies in 
__ in 2013, 2014 and 2015 by I.magazine, which features short articles about each of 
the ranked companies in those annual rankings and includes quotes from the Petitioner in the article 
about his company. Evidence in the form of marketing materials from the publisher indicates that I is a monthly business magazine in with circulation of 18,000, primarily serving 
the larea, but the record does not include evidence which puts this circulation figure into 
perspective in the I I media market, and therefore does not show the extent to which these 
rankings were recognized on a national basis. This evidence shows that during this period, the 
company which the Petitioner founded and lead achieved some level of recognition as standing out 
from other production companies inl land that he was acknowledged as one of its leaders. 
We note, however, that these awards, rankings, and the resulting professional media attention for I I spanned only four years, a small portion of the Petitioner's career in this field, and the record 
does not include similar evidence before 2012 or after 2016 despite the petition being filed three years 
later. 
In addition to acting as a producer for television commercials, the record includes evidence of the 
Petitioner's work on short films and music videos. As discussed above, he is credited as a producer 
on the short film (2000), and as an executive producer on the short film 
(2018), both of which were screened at several film festivals. The evidence indicates that 
nominated for an award at thel ' I International Film Festival, and was named "Best I Film" at the I festival, and the IMDB pages for and l I show that they also received awards at other film festivals. As with the ANDA and 
awards, the evidence does not show that the Petitioner was named as a recipient of any of these awards. 
While we acknowledge the letter from ______ director o and the Petitioner's 
business partner, describing the Petitioner's important role on this film, the evidence does not show 
2 The Petitioner submitted evidence which appears to be art of his ortfolio, or that he prepared for purposes of this 
petition, which lists las being a finalist for an award for "Best TV CommerG,.iat..in, 
2010. While some reference letters mention the award, the record lacks evidence that either 
c===lrthe Petitionerreceived such an award. 
4 
that he received significant acclaim for this role. Also, although tbe oress releases for published 
in some media mention both the Petitioner an -I this self-created content does 
not reflect acclaim from others in the field. Ultimately, while these two short films produced by the 
Petitioner over his long career as a producer garnered attention in the industry and at film festivals, 
the record does not establish that this work helped to elevate his standing into one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
As for music videos, a letter from the founding member of the band I lbriefly describes the 
Petitioner's work on the video for the song I, the release of which in 2018 was 
covered by media in I I and elsewhere. Several of the articles contain an identical paragraph, 
apparently from a ress release, which describes I las "one of the main audiovisual production 
compames 1 and names the Petitioner as the executive producer. As with the press release 
material f for _ while these articles show that the video garnered some attention in the press, they 
do not demonstrate acclaim for the Petitioner from others in his field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he served as a producer for thel I series I I referring to 
articles apparently from I lmedia whichreportthad I will produce 
the third season of the series to be shot in I While reference letters also make mention of this 
project which was completed in 2019, there is no documentary evidence of the Petitioner's direct 
involvement. We further note that the evidence names other companies as producers of the show, and 
the record lacks evidence to show that either the Petitioner orl I were credited for its 
production. 
Fmiher evidence pe1iaining to the Petitioner's acclaim and standing within his field includes an 
interview of him which was published in I I in July 2013 in which he discusses the 
establishment and progress of I The previously noted quotes in the profiles of the production 
companies ranked by I published in 2013, 2014 and 2015, focus mainly onl I 
production statistics and business outlook rather than the Petitioner and his career, and thus do not 
reflect personal acclaim beyond recognition of his role for a distinguished production house. 
In addition, an autobiographical article by the Petitioner, which appeared on the I I website but is 
not dated, does not appear to be accompanied by a complete and accurate English translation based 
upon the structure and content of the original, and has not been demonstrated to have appeared in a 
major or professional medium. This evidence, considered together with the press releases about 
and other media which only mentions him in passing, verify that he was playing a leading role for a 
successful production house, but does not reflect sustained acclaim for the Petitioner as a producer. 
Turning to another type of evidence in the record, the Petitioner's service as a jury member for the 
2011 and 2012 ANDA awards, and his invitation to participate in this role for the 2015 ANDA awards, 
show that he was acknowledged as an expert in his field at the national level in that period. As with 
the company awards and media, however, it does not show that this recognition was sustained, or that 
he stood out from other production experts in the field who also served in such roles. 
5 
The record also includes reference letters in addition to those previously mentioned which mainl 
describe the Petitioner's roles in several projects.3 For example, the second letter from I lakal I discusses his work on a music video for the character ___ noting that 
the Petitioner took leading roles in the development of the character and production of a music video 
for the song 11 Jnotes that the video had more than 42,000 views on 
Y ouTube as of the date of the letter, September 3, 2020, and was briefly reviewed along with other 
new music on NPR's altl lpodcast. 
Another reference letter was submitted by I a founder of the I production 
company. He describes the Petitioner's work as a line producer for a television commercial for the I notting that it required a remote location, cameras mounted on a variety of equipment, 
and action stunts. I I also states that both he and his clients were pleased with the commercial 
and the Petitioner's leading role in its production. While these and other letters show thatthe Petitioner 
has led or participated in the successful production of a variety of projects, they do not establish that 
he received sustained national or international acclaim for this work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also reasserts his claim to a high salary compared to others in his field as 
evidence of his sustained acclaimed and position near the top of his field. The record includes several 
statements translated as "Statement of Miscellaneous Withholdings" for the years 2014-17, which the 
Petitioner describes as his "W-2s." While the terms and figures in these statements are not completelv 
explained, the statements include two columns labelled "Withholding Tax Base," one in J I land another in U.S. dollars, which appear to show the Petitioner's pre-tax earnings, or gross 
income, for the year. The figures are as follows: 
• 2014 
• 2015 
• 2016 
• 2017 
• 2018 $27,614 
$24,052 
$29,625 
$37,533 
$9,427 
For 2017 and 2018, the Petitioner also submitted forms titled "Form DPN-99025: Final Tax Return 
of Income and Payment for Individuals Residences and Inheritances." The figure matching the above 
form for 2017 appears on Line 22 ofPartE, Total Net Income, although for 2018 this figure is slightly 
lower than that shown on the above form. 
As proof of his earnings in I the Petitioner submitted a letter and figures from an accounting 
firm, although we note that no address or telephone number are provided on this letter. The attached 
tables show "List of payments received" from I andl I Productions for the 
years 2015-17, with the totals as follows: 
• 2015 
• 2016 
• 2017 B/.29,300 
B/.54,700 
B/.39,500 
3 All reference letters in the record were reviewed and considered, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
6 
Because th d has a 1 : 1 ex ch an ge rate with the U.S. dollar, the Petition er adds the figures 
from the documents showing his earnings in I and I claiming totals of $53,352 in 
2015, $84,325 in 2016 and $77,033 in 2017. 
For purposes of comparison to others in his field, the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from his 
accountant stating that he receives 150% of the daily rate of other executive producers of short films 
in I I appearing to base this statement upon his work with and other companies. 
However, this statement is not supported by a salary survey of the broader video and film production 
industry inl I Even if the other companies listed by the accountant are production companies 
and he has access to their financial data, given the small sample size and lack of supporting data, this 
statement cannot be considered as a reliable indicator of the average salaries of others in the 
Petitioner's field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also submitted a letter from I who 
states that she is the President of the I IFilm and Video Industry in I I D 
indicates that this organization represents professionals in the audiovisual industry and works 
with the labor unions to set the wages for these professionals. Although she concedes that the 
organization does not negotiate wages for executive producers, she states that it has knowledge of 
these wages through budget reviews, and that it is "common" for an executive producer to earn $400 
or $500 per day. Further, she states that most executive producers inl I involved in creating 
commercials would earn between $10,000 and $20,000. As with the letter from the Petitioner's 
accountant, these statements are not supported by documentary evidence such as a salary survey, and 
they are also not accompanied by additional information about the chamber or its functions. 
I lappears to base her figures on casual observation rather than a systematic study of such 
salaries, and she does not provide relevant data such as the sample size her figures are based upon. As 
such, this evidence is not sufficient to establish a basis for comparison of the Petitioner's salary to 
those of other producers. 
The totality of this evidence shows that the Petitioner has enjoyed some success as an executive 
producer of commercials and other short films and co-founder of a production company, but that the 
acclaim stemming from that success was relatively short-lived. In addition, while his company 
enjoyed success and acclaim for a period, and his expertise was sought in the judging of other 
production professionals, the record does not establish that this elevated his standing as a producer to 
that of one of the small percentage at the top of the field. Accordingly, after a thorough review of the 
evidence in the record, the petition will remain denied. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinaty 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
7 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16897920 
Certification of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a physiatrist specialist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
In the latest decision, the Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that 
although the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not 
show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor.1 On October 27, 2021, the Director certified the 
decision to our office for review. The Petitioner has not submitted a legal brief on certification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will affirm the Director's denial 
of the petition. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 The Director denied the petition and dismissed the Petitioner's subsequentjoint motion to reopen and reconsider , and the 
matter came before us on appeal from the dismissal of the motions. We determined thatthe Director erroneously dismissed 
the motions as untimely filed. We, therefore , withdrew the Director's decision and remanded the matter for further 
consideration and entry of a new decision which, if adverse, was to be ce1tified to us for review. The Director's initial 
certified decision dated January 2021 did not contain, as required, a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) notifying the 
Petitionerofthe right to submit a brief to us within 30 days of the notice. 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectiv ely 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or herachievements in the field through a one-time achievement(thatis, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physi atrist speecializing in the treatment o with the use of 
He received his medical degree from the 
in 1998 and com leted his residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation at the _____________ in 2004. At the time of filing the petition in September 2018 
the Petitioner indicated he was employed as head of the h sical medicine and rehabilitation 
department at I I physiatrist at assistant 
professor of medical residents at the neurological rehabilitation unit at the I I director of the medical rehabilitation unitl I and consultant for the laboratories 
ll and I I on the use oc=Jin neurorehabilitation. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his certified decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met 
four of those criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04 .5 (h )(3 )(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5 (h)(3 )( vi), and leading or critical role under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Although we do not agree with the Director's decision regarding the 
published materials criterion, the record reflects that the Petitioner satisfies three of the evidentiary 
2 
criteria. 2 The documentation submitted indicates that the Petitioner has served as a judge for the 23rd 
Congress of the Latin American Medical Association for Rehabilitation in 2008 and published his 
research in journals, thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The record also 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has held a leading or critical role with his current employer I 
_____ and includes evidence of the hospital's distinguished reputation in the field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contested the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criteria 
related to lesser awards and memberships and asserted the Director did not consider the totality of 1he 
evidence in the record in making his determination. 3 Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence submitted in 
support of those criteria, in the context of the final merits dete1mination below. 4 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 1hat 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3 ); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 5 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within his field, authored scholarly articles, and 
performed in a leading role. We have also considered evidence related to an award he received during 
his residency at the his membership in associations, 
and published materials in ce1iain media. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
2 Regarding the published materials criterion, the record indicates that the Petitioner was interviewed regarding topics in 
chronic pain anddisa bility forthetelevisionprograms in 2012 and I tin 2014 which were 
broadcast on the I ltelevisionnetwork, and for the radio program in 2014. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide a transcription of the video or radio coverage demonstrating published material a bout him 
relating to his work. See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-
chapter-2 (providing guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
J..1.Q£5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that the television shows I and I 
or the radio program I represeyi a mai jor medium. Although the Petitioner provided general 
information about the television network in the issue is whetherthese shows are a major medium. 
3 The Director a !so determined that the Petitioner did not satisfytheclaim ed criteria re lated original contributions and high 
salary. On appeaL the Petitioner requested we "disregard" the evidence submitted under the original contributions criterion 
and consider it under the criterion related to scholarly articles. 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory c1iteria in part one alone 
does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual ofextraordinaryability under 
section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act). 
5 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinaty 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 6 The record 
indicates that at the time of filing, the Petitioner had served as a tribunal member reviewing and 
selecting I for the 23rd Congress of the Latin American Medical Association for 
rehabilitation in 2008. Participating on a tribunal does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. In evaluating this evidence in the final merits determination, the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner had performed as a juror at that conference. The Director determined 
that because invitations to peer review the work of others can be routine in the Petitioner's field, this 
evidence alone did not demonstrate that he is at the top of the field or otherwise establish his sustained 
national or international acclaim. We agree with the Director's determination. The record does not 
contain evidence that the nature of the peer review work he has performed is reserved for the small 
percentage at the very top of the field, such as evidence that he had reviewed an unusually large number 
of articles, received independent requests from a substantial number of journals, or served in an 
editorial position for a distinguished journal. 
The Petitioner claims he has completed other judging duties, such as serving on thesis review 
committees forthd in 2008 for the works titled 
'and 
" However, while the record contains invitations to 
participate in the judging, it lacks evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner completed those 
activities. 7 Moreover, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that the invitations to 
participate are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim or recognition of his 
accomplishments by others in the field. 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Regarding his publication history, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored two 
scholarly articles. The Petitioner emphasizes that he has presented his research and clinical findings 
at national and international conferences. The record does not show that conference presentation is a 
privilege reserved for those at the very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his publication record of two articles in a twenty-year span is consistent with having a career of 
acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 8 The Petitioner did not submit 
evidence showing the significance of the Petitioner's authorships or how his overall publications 
6 See also 6 US CIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative ofbeing one of that small percentage who have risen to th every top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 Sec 6 USCJS Policy Manual,supra,atF.2 appendix (providing an example ofpeerreviewingfora scholarly journaias 
evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, accompanied by proof that the alien actually 
completed the review). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative oftheperson being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59, 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Without evidence that sets the 
Petitioner apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of publishing 
articles in prestigious journals, the Petitioner has not shown that his publications reflect being among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized over a period 
of time. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. The Petitioner did not submit a citation history for his published work. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated a level of interest in his work representing attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, the Petitioner rovided letters of 
recommendation from several colleagues that summarized his work with 
and I I as well as his involvement as a consultant with the pharmaceutical companies I I andl ] 9 While the Director acknowledged evidence demonstrating the Petitioner has 
performed a leading or critical role with several organizations, he found that the record lacked evidence 
of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim. We agree with the Director's determination that the letters 
do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the 
overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For instance, in two letters, I I a neurologist and the Petitioner's co-author and 
colleague at the I provides that Petitioner's focus is on neurological patients 
who are disabled from medical conditions including Parkinson's disease, dystonia, multiple sclerosis, 
and stroke, and that he provided "medical treatment; local infiltrations, treatment with I I I lphysiotherapy, and occupational therapy." I a a physiatrist
1 indicates that the 
Petitioner was her mentor durin her fellowshi at the _________ where she studied 
th She asserts that the Petitioner is a specialist in the 
technique of "localization of motor points" in the _______ 
I a physiatrist and senior lecturer in the department of physical medicine and 
rehabilitation at thel I indicates she has worked with the Petitioner 
on educational lectures and training workshops for doctors regardjng the neurological pathologies that 
merit the use o:tc=J 10 She provides that at I the Petitioner utilized 
9 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 We note that I letter has not been properly translated. Any document in a foreign language must be 
5 
in patients with neurological disorders, developed and provided courses and 
workshops onl _ onsistent with initiatives of the I _of Social Security. 
Although the above letters describe the focus of the Petitioner's clinical work and mention his 
modalities and technique, they do not establish that his role as head of the rehabilitation department 
at garnered him acclaim outside the hospital. 
Similarly, in his above-referenced lettersJ I indicates the Petitioner's role as medical director 
of includes participation in therapeutic studies and national congresses on the topic of the 
treatment ofl l but the record does not show how his role withinl I 
garnered him acclaim outside of that institution. In sum, while the Petitioner's reference letters 
indicated his leading or critical role withl landl I they did not show 
how those roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from 
the greater field, or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition, the record contains letters from several pharmaceutical companies describing the 
Petitioner's role as a consultant. I l Business Unit Manager a indicat t the 
conducting workshops o at I for patients and hospital staff. Petitioner has motivated many of his colleagues to learn more about the correct use o b 
I I of states that the Petitioner participated in several of the company's 
regional meetings as a speaker and consultant in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. I I of indicates that the Petitioner is responsible for the company'sl I 
product development department. Although the record shows that the Petitioner has been a consultant 
on the use o in neurorehabilitation for the laboratories I II I andl the letters 
from rep re sen tatives of those pharmaceutical companies do not address how the Petitioner 's consultant 
positions were leading or critical to these organizations as a whole or have resulted in his being 
recognized as among the small percentage of physiatrists in his field who have achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim as evidenced through extensive documentation. Further, although 
the Petitioner has been an assistant professor of medical residents at the I I I and a physiatrist at I the record does not contain evidence 
documenting his professional career with either of those organizations and that it has garnered him 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
Apart from the recommendation letters the record does not contain other independent evidence, such 
as news articles or other relevant materials, demonstrating that the field of physiatry has widely 
recognized the Petitioner's roles with his employers in a manner that evidences a "career of acclaimed 
work." The Petitioner's talents and his successes to date have garnered him increasing leadership 
responsibilities as evidenced by his current role with I I and I I 
However, the evidence does not show that his roles at these organizations are at a level that places him 
among "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Here, the translation does not contain a certification from the translator. Accordingly , this translation 
does not comply with therequirements of8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3) and has diminished probative value. 
6 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner has satisfied, we have considered additional documentation 
in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
With res ect to his recei t of awards, the record reflects that in 2004 the Petitioner's a er' 
was awarded a prize at the held by the Faculty of I a physiatrist and the Petitioner's co-author on that paper, confirms that the 
Petitioner received the award during his medical residency. The submitted evidence indicates that the 
competition was restricted to the medical institute's resident physicians, and it does not reflect that it 
is a national or internationally recognized award in the field as a whole or that the Petitioner garnered 
recognition for this award that extended beyond the institute. Further, the Petitioner did not establish 
that his 2004 receipt of a single award reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field, placing him 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 
59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record, therefore, has not shown the Petitioner's receipt of the 
award established or contributed to his sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membershi in associations in the field on a eal the Petitioner hi hlighted 
his membership in the since 
2005 and emphasized his service between 2011 and 2015 as a member of the board of directors of the 
Metropolitan Chapter of the organization in the position of secretary. He asserts thatthe Director erred 
in determining that this scientific society does not qualify as an association that requires its members 
to have outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We agree that the evidence does not establish that I requires its 
members to have outstanding achievements. 
The Petitioner provided two letters froml I board memberl I 
confirming that the Petitioner became an Active Member ot1 I in 2005 and served as a member 
of the board of directors of the Metropolitan Chapter of the organization in the osition of secretary 
between 2011 and 2015. The Petitioner also submitted two letters fro a physiatrist 
and past president of I who states that the Petitioner became a member of based upon 
his having "presented scientific works as a first step in his admission" and asserts that the Petitioner's 
membership was "granted by the society to him as an outstanding doctor," although these requirements 
are not stated elsewhere in the submitted materials and no explanation was provided regarding how 
these factors are weighed.11 The Petitioner submitted the 20081 I bylaws that indicate the 
organization has four categories of members: Founding Members, Honorary Members, Active 
Members, and Associate Members. The requirements for "Active" membership include attaining the 
medical specialty of physical medicine and rehabilitation, completing at least three years of approved 
11 We note that the record also contains recommendation letters from past president of I.I land 
pa st vice-president o _____ but these letters do not mention either the Petitioner's membership 
in the society orth membership requirements. 
7 
post-graduate training in physical medicine and rehabilitation, and having "recognized teaching or 
assistance activity." Even if we determined that those educational and work experience requirements 
can be deemed an "outstanding achievement," the Petitioner has not demonstrated how membership 
in the organization, or on the board of directors of its Metropolitan Chapter, reflects or results in 
national or international acclaim or is indicative of his placement among the small percentage of 
scientific researchers who have risen to the top of the field. 
As it relates to media coverage, as noted, the documentation submitted indicates the Petitioner was 
interviewed regarding topics inl for thel !network television 
programs in 2012 and l'in2014,andfortheradioprogramj I 
in 2014. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage, 
without any media reporting pertaining to him since 2014, is consistent with the sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of 
the Act. The Petitioner did not show how this overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success 
consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media 
reporting of approximately three interviews in a 20-year span reflects a career of acclaimed work in 
the field or meets a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required for 
lesser classifications. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 
1991 ). 
Finally, although the record reflects the Petitioner's income as a physician between August 2017 to 
July 2018, the record does not establish that he commands earnings commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show 
that his wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention 
based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not document his earnings beyond the period from August 201 7 to July 
2018, showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of his extraordinary ability. See 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm. 1994 ). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The petition will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The petition is denied. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19920861 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology (IT) project manager, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, and a subsequent combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section291 oftheAct,8U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofCheung, 12 l&NDec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Es time, 19 l&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204. Section 205 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1155. By regulation this revocation authority is delegated to any U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) officer who is authorized to approve an immigrant visa petition. See 
8 C.F.R. § 205 .2(a). USCIS must give the petitioner notice of its intent to revoke the prior approval 
of the petition and the opportunity to submit evidence in opposition thereto, before proceeding with 
written notice ofrevocation. See 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and(c). The Board oflmmigrationAppeals has 
discussed revocations on notice as follows: 
[A] notice of intention to revoke a visa petition is properly issued for "good and 
sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time the notice is issued, if 
unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa petition based upon the 
petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to revoke will be sustained 
where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, including any 
evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of intention 
to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). By itself, the director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and 
sufficient cause for the issuance of a notice of intent to revoke an immigrant petition. Id. The approval 
of a visa petition vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but 
a preliminary step in the visa application process. The beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the 
petition, entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. at 589. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--{x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements, such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee, but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
2 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, originally from Nigeria, is a Canadian citizen. He received his Doctor of Computer 
Science from !University in 2016. At the time he filed the petition in 2016, he 
worked as an IT manager for Subse uent letters indicated that the Petitioner began 
working as a lead business systems anal st for in 2019, and as manager 
of IT Systems and Administration for beginning in 2021. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director approved the petition in December 2016, but revoked the approval in December 2019 
based on the conclusion that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, relating to memberships. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from the Director's decision in October 2020. In that decision, we 
discussed the five claimed evidentiary criteria in depth, and concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied 
two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others and publication of scholarly 
articles. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider in July 2021, 
concluding that the Petitioner did not accurately describe the grounds for revocation or fully address the 
grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We also discussed, in further detail, the criteria pertaining to 
memberships and high remuneration, and concluded that the Petitioner's new evidence did not show that 
he had satisfied those criteria. 
In his second motion, the Petitioner submits more evidence pertaining to memberships and remuneration. 
For the reasons discussed below, this new evidence does not establish proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has maintained that his status as a senior member of the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) meets the requirements of the criterion.1 The 
1 The Petitioner is also a memberoftheAssociationforComputerMachine1y, but his latest motion includes evidence only 
regarding his IEEE membership. 
3 
Director agreed, but we withdrew and reversed that determination in our appellate decision, finding that 
the requirements for senior membership do not include outstanding achievements, and that the Petitioner 
had not shown that recognized national or international experts judge the achievements of candidates for 
senior membership. 
In our decision on the Petitioner's first motion, we concluded that the Petitioner's additional evidence 
showed that senior membership is more restrictive than lower membership categories, but the Petitioner 
had not shown that the requirements for senior membership rose to the level of outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Now, on his second motion, the Petitioner states: 
The election to senior member status of IEEE is conducted by the Admission and 
Advancement (A&A) Senior Member Review Panel ... [ with members] recruited among 
Senior members, Life Senior members, and Fellows of the section where the meeting is 
to be held. The panel members are experts in their chosen fields. 
The new evidence submitted with the second motion does not establish that panel members are nationally 
or internationally recognized experts in their fields, as the regulation requires. As we noted in a prior 
decision, an IEEE official previously indicated that panel members are typically chosen "from the local 
IEEE Section." This information, directly from the IEEE, did not indicate that panel service was limited 
to nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of the IEEE Fellow Committee Recommendation Guide: How 
to Write an Effective Nomination. The Petitioner observes: "The IEEE Bylaws define the qualifications 
for elevation to Fellow Grade in terms of unusual distinction in the profession, an outstanding record of 
accomplishments ... bringing the realization of significant value to society." As we previously observed 
in our appellate decision, "the requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely 
with the regulatory language than the requirements for the Senior Member grade." 
The Petitioner asserts: "The only importantrequirementduringnomination[forelevation to fellow grade] 
is that the nominee must be a Senior member of IEEE. This is because you must have met and passed 
through the rigorous screening process before you can become a Senior member of the association." The 
second quoted sentence is speculative and unsupported. While senior members are more experienced 
and accomplished than the overall IEEE membership, the Petitioner has not established that applicants 
for senior member grade are subjected to a "rigorous screening process," or that senior membership is 
"[t]he only important requirement" for elevation to fellow grade. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that "only 9% ofIEEE['s] 428,000 members have achieved the status 
of Senior Member in the organization." Ninepercentof428,000 is 38,520, which is a substantial number. 
The Petitioner has not shown that IEEE has empaneled nationally or internationally recognized experts 
in order to individually judge the achievements of thousands of applicants for senior membership, which 
includes nearly 40,000 applicants whose applications were approved and an unspecified additional 
number of unsuccessful applicants. Printouts from IEEE's website show that IEEE has a dedicated 
Fellow Committee, which makes recommendation to the IEEE Board of Directors- literally the highest 
level of the organization. In contrast, as noted above, senior members are chosen at the local chapter 
4 
level, a delegation that is fully consistent with the very high number of senior members. Also, the same 
printouts indicate that "[a]ccording to IEEE Bylaw I-305.5, the total number of Pellow recommendations 
in any one year must not exceed one-tenth of one percent of the voting membership." 
While the Petitioner's motion establishes thatIEEEhaspublisheda 2 7-page guide for individuals wishing 
to nominate an IEEE member for elevation to fellow grade, he does not submit similar documentation 
relating to senior member grade to establish that his membership would qualify under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
IEEE's requirements for elevation to fellow grade clearly state that nominees must "[h]ave 
accomplishments that have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, 
science and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society." The Petitioner has not 
shown that the requirements for senior member status appmach that level of achievement. Instead, those 
requirements include productivity and length of experience. The Petitioner has not established that his 
level of IEEE membership clears the very high threshold established in the language of the regulation. 
The newly submitted Recommendation Guide does not establish proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner earned $115,000 per year, and submitted "wage 
statistics that indicate that those at the top of the field command at least $129,700." Some of the wage 
information came from O-NET, a database operated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. 
Department of Labor (DOL). In our initial appellate decision, we concluded that the submitted evidence 
was too broad to show thatthe Petitioner has commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field. 
Some of the evidence failed to account for local variations, and others included lower-paying occupations 
under broad umbrella terms. In our first motion decision, we concluded that the Petitioner's submitted 
figures were not applicable for various reasons. 
In his second motion, the Petitioner submits printouts from O-NET and another DOL-sponsored website, 
CareerOneStop. The printouts from both sites indicate that the salary data is for "Computer Occupations, 
All Other," because specific data for IT project managers are unavailable. This evidence is of 
questionable relevance because, as we explained in a previous decision, the general heading of"Computer 
Occupations, All Other" encompasses what O-NET acknowledged as "occupations with a wide range of 
characteristics." Most of the included occupations are non-managerial. Therefore, average or median 
figures for this diverse grouping would likely tend to be lower than for the Petitioner's specific 
occupation. Furthermore, the Petitioner seeks to compare the median salary for this broad range of 
computer workers not to his base salary, but to his total projected compensation which included the 
possibility, but not the guarantee, of a 10% bonus. 
In our prior decisions, we explained why the submitted salary infonnation is oflimited applicability. The 
Petitioner's newly submitted documentation is subject to these same limitations, and therefore does not 
show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
5 
We note that, if the Petitioner had cleared the initial evidentiary threshold, the case would have proceeded 
to a final merits determination, in which the Petitioner would have had to establish sustained national or 
international acclaim. In the context of sustained acclaim, it would have been relevant to note that the 
Petitioner changed jobs a number oftimes in the years immediately surrounding the filing of the petition, 
and that he provided salary or remuneration evidence for only some of his jobs during that time. With 
incomplete evidence, we would not be able to conclude that his compensation reflected sustained national 
or international acclaim. 2 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening the proceeding and 
has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 The evidence of his salary with which formed the basis for most of his sa la1y claims, consists of a job offerletter 
rather than any evidence of payments he actually received. Therefore, the Petitioner ha snot established that he actually 
received the contingent 10% bonus described in the job offer letter. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20598025 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that 
the record did not establish that the Petitioner had either demonstrated a one-time achievement, that 
is, a major, internationally recognized prize or award, or satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, as required. The Applicant filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider the decision. 
The Director dismissed the combined motion in May 2019. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, and then two combined motions, with us. We dismissed 
the appeal in July 2020, and the motions in April 2021 and August 2021. The matter is now before us 
on a third combined motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the latest combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as petitions forrehearingand 
motions fora new trial on the basis ofnewly discovered evidence. SeeINSv. Doherty, 502U.S. 314,323 (1992) (citinglNS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
III. ANALYSIS 
In August 2021, we dismissed the Petitioner's second motion to reconsider with a six-page decision 
in which we discussed the Petitioner's arguments and explained why they did not overcome the basis 
of the appeal's denial and were deficient. The Petitioner's latest motion does not address or rebut the 
conclusions in our August 2021 decision. Instead, apart from a few introductory paragraphs, the brief 
for the Petitioner's latest (third) motion is almost identical to the brief submitted with her second 
motion. The Petitioner does not cite any statute, regulation, case law, or other sources to establish that 
our prior conclusions regarding these arguments were incorrect. 
2 
As noted above, a motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reconsider is not a process to seek reconsideration by generally alleging 
error in the prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). The Petitioner's 
resubmission oflargely the same brief does not show proper cause for reconsideration. 
In her second motion, the Petitioner asserted that she had previously submitted relevant new evidence 
that we have not yet duly considered. When we dismissed that second motion in August 2021, we 
discussed the evidence and explained why it did not satisfy regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )(3) 
relating to awards, memberships, and salary. The Petitioner's latest motion includes a copy of our 
August 2021 decision. Nevertheless, rather than answer or contest any of our discussion of the 
evidence in question, the Petitioner repeats the claim that we have not addressed the evidence at all, 
and therefore "reopening of this case and reconsideration of this evidence ... is required." 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the requirements of a 
motion to reconsider. We will therefore dismiss the motion. 
Because the motion brief is mostly identical to the brief submitted with her prior motion, the latest 
motion includes no new facts. The Petitioner's latest motion also includes no new evidence. As a 
result, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen, and must be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20259190 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets three additional criteria, relating to nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, original contributions of major significance in the field, 
and leading or critical role for organizations or establishments. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), 
( viii). He maintains that he qualifies for the classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably "true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawath e, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-
76. 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained acclaim 
and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or 
she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documenta tion is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determinat ion); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who leads the I music groupJ I According to 
page 4 of the petition, he intends to work as a music producer in the United States and be involved in 
"studio recording & production; songwriting, live performing and music industry consulting." The 
Director concluded that the evidence did not show that the Petitioner had received a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) discussed in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not challenge this finding. As such, he must satisfy at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidentiary 
requirements. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the ten criteria relating to published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record supports this 
determination . Specifically , the record includes an article published on www.Billboard .com that 
discusses the Petitioner and his music, and the evidence confirms that the website qualifies as a "major 
trade publication[] or other major media," as referenced in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . Additionally, 
the record includes evidence showing that the Petitioner has performed his music in various events 
2 
and venues, including on thel I in the I and at the I Music 
and Arts Festival in Florida. He has therefore submitted "[e]vidence of the display of [his] work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases," satisfying the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) and (viii). We will address his claim with respect to the individual evidentiary 
criteria below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the prizes or awards criterion because he earned "a 
qualification of Outstanding or Excellence" at a masterclass with and 
because he has collaborated with musician on the songwriting, recording and 
production of original song I The Petitioner alleges that I is "one of the most 
influential artists in the world," and that I is a "renown I guitarist, .. 
. who is a living legend as a guitarist" in I Spain. According to a2019 certificate and a document 
entitled "Course Outline" froml the Petitioner "attended and successfully 
completed the following Summer Class(es): Guitar 4 Master Class by and "received a 
grade of Excellent." The Petitioner also presented documents relating to his song I I 
including online printouts from www.spotifv.com, indicating that the song featured! I 
as well as another artist named I I 
Although the Petitioner claims that these accomplishments confirm his "recognition of excellence in 
the field of endeavor," he has failed to demonstrate that his grade at a summer program or his 
collaboration with another musician in one song constitutes a prize or an award as referenced in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). As explained in the Director's decision, the Petitioner has not offered 
"documentary evidence to establish that comp le ting [ a summer pro gram or being involved in a musical 
collaboration] is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. Accordingly, he has not satisfied this criterion.2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he satisfies the original contributions criterion because his 
musical work is both original and of major significance in the field. We find the record does not 
support his contention. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has submitted comparable evidence that satisfies the criterion under 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4 ). Forthereasons we will discuss in SubheadingB of this decision, we disagree. 
3 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The record includes a number ofreference letters discussing the Petitioner's musical work, claiming 
that he has created a new genre of music. For example _________ the director of 
Billboard Magazine from itsl I hub, states that the Petitioner's "ability in music comes 
from his capacity to combine different influences of his I I heritage, including! lmusic 
... , with rock and folk traditions, including! I ro£l I ___________ claims that the Petitioner's ''ability to compose and perform highly 
sophisticated music involving the intersection between multiple genres is unparalleled" and that his 
"extraordinary ability in mixing musical genres from around the world -including! I I is incredibly rare in the music industry." I I 
a designer, architect and naturalist, states that the Petitioner has "sinle handed! created a new genre 
of music involving musical sounds from I I a music producer associated with the Music and Arts F 1 
rovides that the Petitioner ossesses an extraordinar abilit in a rarified music enre of 
a musician and composer, states that the Petitioner's "compositions are rich and eclectic, blending 
various genres like rock, blues, and folk in a novel way that makes his music unique and diff erenf" 
and that his music "has resulted in the creation of a new sound, an amalgamation of genres from around 
the world." I I the chief creative officer and managing partner at the I 
indicates that the Petitioner has "reached a level of prominence in his very unique music genre that 
perfectly combines Latin folk with rock music" and that he "is a very successful [] musician and artist 
in his niche musical genre." These, as well as other reference letters and documents not specifically 
discussed here, sufficiently confirm that the Petitioner's music -which combines musical styles from 
different part of the world -is original and unique. 
Notwithstanding this finding, however, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his music 
constitutes "contributions of major significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). While the record includes some evidence that the Petitioner's musical talents have 
been recognized, it is insufficient to confirm that his work has been widely implemented throughout 
the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. A 2017 article posted on www.billboard.com discusses the Petitioner's record I I stating that it "shows the growing maturity of a musician who is open to share with 
artists of different styles" and the record "is a showcase of a music artist who tries to blur the lines 
with absolute abandon." A similar article was published in Billboard which states that the 
Petitioner 
and that his record _____ "is the staging of a musical character that seeks to 
dilute borders with an utterly unbiased mind." The Petitioner has also offered evidence showing that 
he was interviewed by I at her pod cast, in which he "talk[ed] about his struggles breaking 
free from the corporate world to pursue his dream of making music." While the documentation 
concerning media exposure indicates that the Petitioner has received some attention from the field, it 
4 
is insufficient to establish that the extent of his influence has risen to the level of "major significance 
in the field." 
Similarly, while the Petitioner and his music group have performed in a number of events 
and venues, including the _____ in the and thel I Music and 
Arts Festival, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the reception of his work supports a finding 
that it constitutes "major significance in the field." According to the materials in the record, the 
presents to the public free performances of "music, theater, and dance feature 
emerging and established artists from the [local] area, across the nation, and around the world." This 
means that artists of different levels of influence in the field are invited to perform for the public on 
thel I and that being invited to perform on the does not necessarily 
indicate that a articular artist has made contributions of major significance in the field. Likewise, 
accordin t he invited the Petitioner and his music group I I to perform at 
th Music and Arts Festival, which I claims to have attracted "over 40,000 
attendees," because he was impressed with the Petitioner's "guitar playing skills" and "the quality of 
his vocals." While I I alleges that the Petitioner's participation in festival "is an incredible 
honor and evidences [his] superior talents [as] a musical artist," neither the letter nor other evidence 
in the record confim1s that his perf mmances in the festival or any other events or venues resulted in 
his musical style being widely adopted throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
Some of the Petitioner's references allege that his licensing agreement is indicative of his impact in 
the field. We disagree. The record includes a 2014 licensing agreement, under which the Petitioner 
(the licensor) allowed I I (the licensee) to "deliver[] [his 
musical work] in diverse f ormats ... and through diverse digital channels ... such as cell phones and 
internet," and that the licensee agreed to pay the Petitioner a "royalty percentage." The Petitioner has 
not submitted additional documentation concerning this licensing agreement, such as the amount of 
"royalty percentage" compensation he has received, or whether the parties are still under contractual 
obligations. Regardless, similar to having articles written about him and his work, this licensing 
agreement shows that the field has noticed the Petitioner, but it falls short of confirming that his 
musical work is of such caliber that it constitutes "contributions of major significance."3 
Indeed, some of the Petitioner's references indicate that his musical work of combining different 
musical styles might one day impact the field in a significant way. For exampleJ I I I a music director for a number of orchestras, indicates that the Petitioner "has reached a 
point in his music career where he is on the verge of achieving worldwide fame for his unquestionably 
distinctive style and aptitude." I I a film and commercial director, states that he has "no[] 
doubt that subsequent performers, composers and critics have and will embrace his fusion of electric 
genres such as folk and rock, spawning a new type of music." an entertainment 
attorney, claims that the Petitioner "is well on his way to becoming a leading light in today's field of I I music, having himself coined a unique expression I I which 
almost creates a new genre of music."I I a producer and owner of I 
3 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a September2021 licensingagreementwitH I As this document 
postdates the filing of the petition in July 2021, it does not demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility at the time he filed the 
petition. Sec 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) (providing that a petitioner"mustestablish that he or she is eligible for the requested 
benefit at the time offilingthe benefit request and must continue to be eligible through adjudication"). 
5 
I I provides that the Petitioner "has created a fusion of two vastly different varieties of 
music and his innovation and creation of a new and different style of music will soon 
invigorate and change the music scene." These reference letters discuss the potential impact of the 
Petitioner's work. This criterion, however, requires evidence that his work has already made 
contributions of major significance in the field. Speculations of his work's potential impact, thus, are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
However, for the reasons we have discussed above, the letters and other evidence in the record fail to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the field. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 
1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final detennination regarding an 
individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters supporting the 
petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we have in this case, evaluate the 
content of those letters as to whether they support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 795-96. Thus, 
the content of the references' statements are important considerations. The record, including the 
reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original work has been unusually 
influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the level of musical 
contributions of major significance. As such, he has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory 
criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion because he was the "Project Leader and 
Marketing Strategist" for I 
" 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) (including an appendix 
that discusses all ten criterion), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
Additionally, in determining whether an organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation, 
the relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor. Rather, the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation. 
As supporting evidence, the Petitioner offers a letter from who claims in an 
August 2021 letter that while working forl I he "was leading the Latin American promotion of 
... and also planning for I 
states that the Petitioner assisted him in 
both the campaign and the and was "in charge of the integration of 
6 
digital/online strategies, market research and comparative analysis of musical festivals." He alleges 
that "[d]ue in large part of [the Petitioner's] leading efforts and the rest of an international team, 
became the best and fastest selling I in the digital age," and that the 
Petitioner's "craft and critical role in planning and executing I lwas equally as 
impressive." The record includes other documents relating to both the campaign and the festival. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated thatj I or one of its departments or divisions qualifies as an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
atF.2(8)(2) (appendix). Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person." See www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. On appeal, the Petitioner submits evidence concerning! I 
including a Variety article, materials posted on www.WallStreetWomenForum.com and 
www.wmg.com, indicating that I I is "a fonner talent-management and current investment 
company" "dedicated to innovative growth-stage businesses in the consumer, media and technology 
sectors," and that it had "worked closely with artists including These 
documents, as well as those not specifically mentioned, show tha had worked with certain well-
known performers, they are, however, insufficient to support a finding that its reputation, or the 
reputation of one of its departments or divisions, is "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." 
As such, the Petitioner has not shown that I I or one of its departments or divisions has a 
distinguished reputation. 
Moreover, the evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner, based on his involvement in one 
campaign and one festival, was a leader within I a division or a department withinl I or that 
he contributed in a way that is of significant impmiance to the outcome of lactivities or those 
of a division or department within See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, atF.2(8)(2) ( appendix). 
The Petitioner's title in I and his associated duties, are insufficient to show that he was a leader. 
Similarly, while he might have played a significant role in certain aspects -including "integration of 
digital/online strategies, market research and comparative analysis of musical festivals -of the 
campaign and the I he has failed to explain the significance of his work to the I 
as a whole or to a I I division or department. Without additional corroborating evidence 
demonstrating his leading or critical role forl I or one of its divisions or departments, and 
establishin or one of its divisions or departments has a distinguished reputation, he has not 
satisfied this regulatory criterion. 4 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he has submitted comparable evidence showing that he meets the 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards criterion under8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses comparable evidence and allows a petitioner the 
opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish his or her eligibility, if USCIS determines 
that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's occupation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(8)(2) (appendix). In this case, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence 
4 Additionally, we note that the Petitioner indicated on page 4 of the petition that he intends to work as a music producer 
in the United States, claiming extraordinary ability as a musician and a musical producer. He, however, has explained 
how his expe1ience in business strategies, marketing and market research relates to the field in which he claims 
extra ordinary ability. 
7 
showing that the nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not readily apply to his occupation as a musician and music producer. The fact 
that he has not received such prizes or awards is insufficient to support a finding that the criterion 
"do[es] not readily apply to the []occupation." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Moreover, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his successful completion of a summer masterclass program or his musical 
collaboration with another musician is truly comparable to nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. See id. Based on these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established that he may rely on comparable evidence to satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). See also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition, which is adjudicated based on a different standard, statute, regulations, and 
case law. Many immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. 
See, e.g., Sunlift Int ·z v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 2021); Q Data Consulting, 
Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dep 't of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 
(D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 
F. 2d 41, 42 (2d Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the offices 
adjudicating nonimmigrant visa petitions, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals 
and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf 
of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration 
petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we note that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a musician who has gained some recognition for his work. But he has not 
shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international acclaim, or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also Section 203(b )(l)(A) oftheAct. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who 
8 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above 
stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20754998 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not establish the Petitioner 's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a miniatures artist specializing in folk art and I I miniatures 
who has displayed his work at numerous exhibitions, showcases and trade fairs around the world. He 
states that he intends to continue his work as a miniatures artist in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material, judging, authorship of scholarly 
articles, and artistic display, and we agree with that determination. However, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's determination that he has not earned sustained 
national or international acclaim was erroneous, and further asserts that the Director erred in 
determining that he did not meet two additional initial evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards and 
original contributions of major significance. We note, however, that once the Petitioner satisfies at 
least three of the regulatory criteria, the focus shifts to whether the evidence establishes that he has the 
necessary status and acclaim in the field. As the Director found that the Petitioner meets four criteria, 
any items that might relate to other criteria are better considered in the context of the final merits 
analysis.1 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the record is not indicative of the 
necessary level of acclaim and status in the field. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner offered one article about him published in 2016. This 
single article, however, does not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage is consistent with the 
sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner also submitted evidence demonstrating that his 
biography appeared in the 2018-2019 volume of Who 's Who in Visual Art, published by Art Domain 
Whois Publisher, Germany. According to the documentation submitted, the Petitioner's one-paragraph 
biography appeared along with 100 other brief biographies of artisans, craftspeople and designers in this 
volume. Appearing in a volume with a large number of other individuals is not indicative of national 
acclaim or status among the small percentage at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with 
being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his 
activities reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field. or a very high standard to present more 
extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.2 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as a judge/juror for exhibitions including 
in 2010 and thel !Music Festival and Art Show in 2016. However, while the evidence 
submitted confirms his participation and shows that he has achieved some level of recognition for his 
work in the field, it does not establish that these exhibitions are prestigious or that selection as a judge 
for these events is reserved for those artists at the top of the field. The Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others at the very top of the field, and he has not 
established that these instances place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence 
that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in his field, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
2 See id. (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 3 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner authored one magazine and one newspaper article in 2016. However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of two documents in a one-year period is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that his authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For instance, the Petitioner did not show the significance of his authorships 
or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Regarding the public display of his artwork, the evidence shows that the Petitioner's work has been 
displayed at craft shows, fairs, and showcases, primarily inl I as well as at international 
artistic exhibitions. The record, however, does not include evidence which demonstrates that any of 
the named craft shows and fairs attracted anything other than local interest or garnered acclaim for the 
Petitioner and his work. Similarly, although the record reflects that the display of the Petitioner's 
work at various artistic exhibitions in cities such asl I might suggest broader acclaim for the 
Petitioner, the record contains insufficient evidence of the attention garnered by such exhibitions. 
Beyond the four criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, discussed above, we 
consider additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the 
evidence demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons 
discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his receipt of the I Special Achievement Medal in 
thel category ofl I an International Fine Arts Competition presented bye I in 2016. While the Petitioner's receipt of this award demonstrates some level of 
recognition, the record does not include evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers, 
nor is there evidence that this competition is prestigious or well-known such that this award was 
nationally or internationally recognized and brought acclaim of that scope to the Petitioner. In 
addition, the record does not include information about this competition, its categories, and the number 
and type of medals and other awards issued. The Petitioner did not demonstrate that his receipt of this 
single award is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor does the record as a whole reflect such acclaim or include extensive 
documentation demonstrating that his achievements have been recognized in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate and a letter from I l the Association of Folk Artists, 
Craftsmen and Artists of in which the Chairman of the I I 
Department stated that the Petitioner was accepted as a member in 2006 and that he is a current and 
full member of the association. The Petitioner also submitted copies of letters from other artists who 
recommended him for membership based upon his achievements and skill inl I 
miniatures. These letters, however, do not reflect that membership requires outstanding achievements 
in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field.4 For example, while the letter from 
3 See id. (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they were indicative of being one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international 
acclaim). 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); see also 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2. 
4 
___ indicates that admission "is granted on the recommendation of Art Experts Council 
composed solely of nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk art 
and based on the applicant's artistic achievements and potential for future development in the field," 
the Petitioner has not provided documentary evidence, such as the organization's bylaws or 
information on the composition of the Art Experts Council to corroborate these claims. The Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that this association limits its membership to 
individuals with renowned endeavors nor has he otherwise demonstrated the significance of this 
membership such that it contributes to a finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner also claims that he invented a new and unique method for painting miniaturesD 
and and submits reference letters from artists and others in the art world who provide their thoughts 
on this technique as well as his other contributions to the field. 5 This testimonial evidence indicates 
that the Petitioner's artistic skills as a miniaturist are highly regarded by his peers. However, the letters 
do not identify with specificity how he has remarkably impacted or influenced the field and that he 
has received sustained and widespread acclaim for his unique contributions. 
For example,! I Director of the indicates that his 
museum has acquired and is honored to dis la the Petitioner's work, and notes that the Petitioner's 
perfection of the special process makes his works "utterly unique." I I I I Fine Arts Chair for Fine Art, generally praises the Petitioner's art 
and states that his many accomplishments in the field "unquestionabl illustrate" his extraordinary 
talent and ability. I I artist and board member o Fine Art states 
that he had not seen the Petitioner's technique of painting pr prior to the 
Exhibition in 2018, but after seeing it he "is positive that the Petitioner has made a contribution of 
major significance to the development of miniature art." I I al lartist, 
generally compliments the Petitioner's work and describes his techniques as "very picturesque and 
illustrative." 
While the writers compliment the Petitioner's work, none of the writers explain how his technique of 
painting I I represents an "original contribution," nor do they address the impact of this technique 
or any of his other innovations on the field. Neither the letters nor the evidence as a whole indicates 
that the Petitioner has been recognized for making an original contribution of major significance based 
on his work. Also, although the statements in these letters describe his work as innovative, they do 
not indicate that others in the field have adopted elements of or have been inspired by the Petitioner's 
work in creating their own art. While these letters suggest that the Petitioner'sDtechnique, and body 
of work generally, have directly impacted the letter writers in their artistic approaches, their statements 
are not indicative of original contributions in the field with a wider impact consistent with "major 
significance," nor do their statements support a finding that the Petitioner has received national or 
international acclaim as a result ofhisOtechnique or general body of work with miniatures. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing the 
Petitioner from others in the field and does not demonstrate that his achievements are at a level that 
5 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
places him among the small percentage at the top of the field. Nor does the evidence establish that he 
has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level, or that it is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59; see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his 
standing among his peers in the field of miniature art, it does not establish that he is yet one of that 
small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738529 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 31, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musical director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award) or that he, in the alternative , satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a co-founder, musician, and musical director for the 
I I group I I The evidence indicates that I I which formed in 1987, 
regularly performs at restaurants, private and corporate parties, and special events inl I and 
has made appearances onl I television. In a letter submitted with his petition, the Petitioner 
stated his intent to work as a musical director for several! !Florida-based projects focused on I lmusic. 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he received two major, internationally recognized awards, 
specifically twol lawards, and therefore established that he has a qualifying one-time 
achievement. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that these awards are 
major, internationally recognized awards, and he does not pursue this claim on appeal. Because the 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this issue, we consider it to be 
abandoned.1 We will discuss the awards further in the context of lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy any of the six 
claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence related to several criteria, 
asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence standard, and maintains that 
he meets at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is otherwise qualified for the benefit 
sought. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and, for the reasons discussed below, 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and that 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on the following awards: 
• award, Musical Director of the Year (2016) • I I award, Musical Producer of the Year (201 7) 
The inscriptions on the Petitioner's award plaques indicate that he received the 2016 award for his 30 
years of experience and success directing the group I I while the 201 7 award recognizes 
his achievement of 5,000 performances with the group. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a letter froml ,I the president of the I 
ofl I Foundation, addressed to the Petitioner, which provides background regarding the 
organization and award and indicates that the Petitioner would be receiving the the 2016 Musical Director of 
the Year award at an event held at I inl _ on November 3, 2016. I I indicates that the award was established by a journalist in 1955, that it has been issued since 
that time "in the state ofl !throughout the national and international territory such as Colombia, 
Mexico, USA, Panama, Puerto Rico, Europe," and that it recognizes those in the fields ofradio, television, 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 
cinema, theater, advertising, sport, commercial, business, medical and institutional, among others. The 
letter mentions that the award "operates non-profit, it also has no sponsorship from any government entity 
or private company and therefore its credibility and prestige are endorsed by our criteria and the ethics of 
each person who make up the board."I lalso states that thel I is the only prize I lthat has its certificate "endorsed by the International Federation of Awards" which makes it 
"the most credible award at a regional, national and international level." The letter indicates that winners 
are chosen "according to the results of the surveys and studies carried out by our board of directors." 
However, the Petitioner did not include any additional evidence regarding the nomination and selection 
process for the award to support a claim that it is an award for "excellence" in the field of music or explain 
or document the significance of an endorsement from the "International Federation of Awards." 
The Petitioner indicated that he was providing articles from major media publications demonstrating that 
thel I awards are "nationall and internationally distinguished." This evidence included 
information about the which does not appear to be the same as the prize. Information about th identifies its founder as The 
record indicates that the founder of the of of Foundation was I I Furthermore, the record provides different years for the founding of the two organizations The 
submitted evidence, therefore, appears to relate to two different organizations and two different prizes. 
A rt· 1 ublished by I I newspaper I describes the as "the only 
award that belongs to the I I 
which groups the awards: Billboard, 'Lo Nuestro,' 'Grammy Latinos' and Golden Globe, 
among others." The evidence did not include documentation of any media coverage of the award 
ceremonies at which the Petitioner received his I I awards or any media attention surrounding 
his receipt of these awards. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence did not 
establish that hisl I awards are nationally or internationally recognized in his field, and noted 
that the record did not include information about selection criteria for the award or information regarding 
others competing for the same award. The Director requested additional evidence to establish the criteria 
used to grant the award, the significance of the award, the reputation of the organization granting it, 
evidence related to previous winners and their acclaim in the field, and public announcements regarding 
the awards issued by the granting organization. 
The Petitioner's response included a second letter from lwho named other recipients of I I musical director or musical producer of the year awards. The RFE response also included 
media articles about these individuals from online editions of the lnewspapersl I 
and ______ ,accompanied by circulation figures for these publications. The 
Petitioner emphasized that the submitted articles about these individuals mention that they are recipients 
of I awards and therefore demonstrate that the award receives national media attention. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided an article fromc==J..+innouncin that the next award 
ceremony would be held at thel I of the Hotel in in December 
2017. While the record indicates that the Petitioner received a award in 2017, it does not 
reflect that he received it at the December 2017 ceremony in mentioned in the media article. 
The submitted certificate indicates he was awarded as "Musical Producer of the Year" at a June 30, 201 7 
ceremony held at a museum in The Petitioner did not submit an 
4 
announcement of winners from the ceremonies at which he received his awards or otherwise establish 
that those ceremonies received media attention consistent with a nationally recognized entertainment 
industry award. Further, this evidence reflects that the I I of_ I Foundation has 
multiple ceremonies in different cities on an annual basis, which suggests that at least some of its awards 
may be regional rather than national or international in scope. 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion, the Director determined that 
there was insufficient evidence to establish that his I awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards in the field of music, noting that the record lacked documentation showing the criteria 
used to nominate and select recipients and therefore did not establish that recipients are awarded based 
on excellence in the field of endeavor. The Director acknowledged evidence that other award recipients 
received media coverage that mentioned the I award, but noted that rankings forl I I I and I I were not sufficiently high to establish that these are major media publications 
inl I or that the awards received widespread coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional letter froitj I who addresses the 
foundation's process for selecting winners. He notes that the foundation evaluates "the nominations 
received by examining the performance, cultural and artistic contribution, years of professional career of 
the nominee among other aspects" and states that "after an evaluation by a group of experts in the field 
and based on verifiable selection methods, the decision to award the nominee is made." I I 
clarifies that the "is not a contest between participants across many categories," and states 
that the Petitioner received the award "because of his musical career of many years and the cultural 
contribution of his group I 
The limited evidence of the award's media coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or 
international recognition associated with the Petitioner' sl I awards. The submitted evidence 
does not demonstrate, for example, that the award winners receive a level of media coverage associated 
with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the entertainment industry and does not 
include any media coverage of the specific ceremonies at which the Petitioner received his awards. 
Further, the evidence does not provide clear or consistent information regarding the number of award 
categories, the various levels of awards given, the criteria used to grant awards ( and whether the award 
is for "excellence" in his field), or even whether all the awards are deemed national in scope, given 
evidence that there are regional award ceremonies held in different I cities in each calendar 
year. For example, in his initial letter,I I stated that that lwinners are selected 
"according to the results of the surveys and studies carried out by our board of directors." He later 
indicated that a "group of experts in the field" evaluates nominees, but did not identify who comprises 
this group, describe the nominating process, or explain what "verifiable selection methods" are used. 
While the Petitioner submitted articles about other artists in his field that mention their receipt of the 
awards, two of the three articles focus on the current projects and overall career of the featured 
individuals rather than on the award. Notably, none of the media articles relating to this criterion 
mention the Petitioner or his receipt of the I award. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
5 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 3 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted two published articles for consideration. One article, titled I I I was published in the print edition of La Voz on I I 2017. This article is an interview with 
the Petitioner and is about him and his work in the field. The second article was published in the print 
edition of Mi Diario on I 2016, and is titled I This article 
announces a casting opportunity for the I dance competition. It includes a photograph of 
the Petitioner, refers to him as a "renowned music director" and mentions his role on the qualifying 
jury for the show. 4 To establish that these publications constitute major media, the Petitioner provided 
"traffic overview" statistics for their respective websites (diariolavoz.net and midiario.com) obtained 
from Similar Web. While this evidence includes information regarding the number of monthly visitors 
each website receives, the Petitioner did not include Similar Web's rankings (or rankings from another 
source) showing how these online publications compare with others in I Nor did the 
Petitioner explain the significance of the "traffic overview" statistics and how this information alone 
establishes that either publication qualifies as "major media." 
Moreover, the articles the Petitioner provided were from the print editions of these publications and 
were not accompanied by evidence that the articles also appeared in the respective online editions. 
The record does not include any circulation data or rankings for La Vaz or Mi Diario and therefore 
does not establish that either print publication constitutes "major media" inl 5 Nor has the 
Petitioner claimed that either publication is a professional or major trade publication. 
3 Evidence may include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular and academic 
journal articles, books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of 
the person and the person's work. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
4 We observe that the bylines on the original articles indicate that they were written by the same author. The Director 
determined that there appeared to be inconsistencies in the record concerning the articles and their English translations, in 
part questioning whether the same author wrote for both publications. The Petitioner provides additional evidence 
regarding the articles' author and his career in support of the appeal. We find no reason to doubt the credibility of the 
submitted articles. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
6 
In addition to the two published articles, the Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion because 
he was interviewed on several television programs that aired on Network. In 
support of this claim, he submitted screenshots from You Tube and Face book videos of his appearances 
on the programs! (2016 and 2017) (2016), (1999) andl I 
(1999). He provided an article about the history of from the network's 
website in support of his assertion that he was interviewed in a major medium. 
This regulatory criterion requires "published material" in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media and "the title, date, and author of the material." Screenshots of video clips are not published 
material in professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner did not establish that the screenshots from YouTube or 
Facebook videos constitute published material about him relating to his work, nor did he provide 
transcripts of his appearances on any of these programs. 
The Petitioner subsequently supplemented the record with letters from the producers of the programs and ,I who confirmed his appearances with I The producer 
of states that the Petitioner was interviewed by one of the show's presenters about the group's 
upcoming performances and about itsl I music. The producer of children's show I I stated that a member of the young cast interviewed the Petitioner about the 
beginnings of his musical career in land asked him to demonstrate how the different instruments 
are played. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of ratings for these programs in 
support of his claim that they constitute "major media" in I However, even if we determined 
that one or both television programs were deemed major media at the time of airing, the Petitioner did 
not meet the evidentiary requirements. As noted, audio and video coverage of an individual's work 
should be accompanied by a transcript in order for USCIS to determine whether such coverage meets 
all requirements for this criterion. The producers' brief summaries of the Petitioner's appearances on I and I are not equivalent to transcripts of those appearances. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion based on his service as a member of the "qualifying 
jury" for a dance-themed competitive reality show called! I He submitted two letters from 
the show's producers who indicate his involvement in the first season of the show and membership on 
the qualifying jury for a televised event held onl I 2016 at a venue inl I The 
producers note that the Petitioner provided "excellent advice and opinions to the ten new artists and 
groups that qualified for this gala." As noted above, the Petitioner's evidence also included an article 
titled _________ which was published in thel 2016 print edition 
of the publication Mi Diario. The article indicates that casting to selectl participants 
would be held on I 2016 at the I I nightclub, and that the show would soon air "on 
a television channel." The Petitioner is mentioned in the article as a member of the "qualifying jury" 
panel. 
7 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted an online article about published by I I I I on I 2016. 6 The article indicates that the new television show 
would be holding a "second casting" at thel on I 2016, and that the show 
would later be televised onl I Network. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence of his participation as a 
judge for the show, noting that the submitted articles contained inconsistent dates and that the record 
"lacked independent documentary evidence that I I actually took place." 
On appeal, the Petitioner seeks to clarify the relevant dates, noting that he served as a judge at the 
casting stage for I inl 2016 and for the show itself in I 6. He does 
not address the submitted article indicating that the castin of the show occurred i 2016, rather 
than 2016. Further, while the article from indicated that casting would 
occur in 2016 and the show would air on Network, the later article in Mi Diario only 
indicated thatl lwould be "on a television channel." The letters from the producers do not 
mention where it was ultimately broadcast. Due to these ambiguities, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the record lacks sufficient independent evidence that the competition ultimately 
took place and was televised as planned. 
Therefore, while the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was invited to participate on a jury panel 
and to evaluate the work of others in an allied field, it does not sufficiently corroborate his participation 
as a judge inl I because it lacks independent evidence that the competition was completed 
and broadcast as planned. The Petitioner does not address this deficiency on appeal. There is also a 
lack of corroborated information regarding the nature of the jury's role in evaluating the contestants. 
The show's producers stated that judges provided "tools and excellent advice and opinions" to 
participants but did not mention that the judging panel was responsible for scoring contestants or 
otherwise selecting the winner. 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish he meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion relating to the display of his 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). This determination was based, 
in part, on a finding that the criterion is intended solely for visual artists, not performing artists. We 
disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this 
criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a 
given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed 
be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 7 While not all the Petitioner's 
6 The submitted English translation of the article indicates that it was published on 2017; however, the date of 
publication on the original Spanish-language article is I 2016. 
7 See also USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that officers should use the common dictionary definitions 
of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
8 
performances withl I can be considered "artistic exhibitions or showcases," the record 
contains evidence that they have performed at cultural events intended to showcase! I of 
music and which satisfy the plain language of this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the criterion was not met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner initially submitted two invoices in support of his claim that he meets this criterion: 
• July 2017 invoice in the amount of 850,000 indicatin that the Petitioner billed I I for a I lheld at the 
• June 2017 invoice in the amount of 700,000, indicating that he bille Steak House 
CA for two "presentations." 
The Petitioner provided currency conversions calculated in August 2017 and indicated that he was paid 
over $150,000 (USD) in two months based on these invoices alone. As a basis for comparison, the 
Petitioner provided salary information for "Music Directors and Composers" from two U.S. Department 
of Labor resources indicating a mean annual wage of $60,630 and a high (90th percentile) wage of 
$106,700 for this occupation in 2016. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that there was insufficient evidence to establish that the 
invoices provide evidence of wages paid to and received by him for his work as a music director. The 
Director advised the Petitioner of additional evidence he could provide to document his annual salary and 
to establish that it is high compared to others in the field. In response, the Petitioner re-submitted the 
invoices and provided a receipt indicating that, in July 2018, I paid the Petitioner 
the amount indicated on the July 2017 invoice. He also submitted additional wage data for music 
directors working in the United States from Pa scale.com. In addition, the RFE response included a letter 
from a representative of who confirms that the company has contracted the 
Petitioner and to provide shows with live musicians and dancers at private, 
corporate, social, and cultural events for many years. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, emphasizing that the submitted 
invoices alone do not provide evidence the Petitioner's actual salary or remuneration and they were not 
accompanied by evidence that the clients honored them. In this regard, we observe that, although the 
invoices identify the Petitioner as the individual billing for performances, the letter froml I I I indicates that it typically contracts for performances by I land therefore it is 
reasonable to believe that the total amount billed for a given show would include payments to other 
members of the group and other expenses related to the performance. Without additional evidence, the 
record does not establish that any payments he received forl l's services solely encompassed 
his own individual fee for services. The Director also emphasized that the record lacked any comparative 
evidence of what constitutes a high salary for a music director or producer providing similar services in I I 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence demonstrating that I I paid him the amount billed on the July 2017 invoice. The Petitioner also references the 
9 
previously submitted evidence of salaries for musical directors in the United States and asserts that 
the evidence demonstrates that he earns an "exceptionally high salary" in comparison. 
However, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that he did not provide a 
sufficient basis for comparison to show that his earnings are high compared to others performing similar 
work in I Persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. 
dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. 8 
Further, while the Petitioner has documented the payment he received for a single event, that payment 
(received from the client in 2018) post-dated the filing of the petition. The record lacks evidence, such 
as tax or other financial documents, showing his total earnings in any previous year. Further, as noted 
above, the record does not establish that the fee charged for his group's performance at a given event 
solely encompasses remuneration for the Petitioner's own individual services. 
For the reasons discussed, the record is insufficient to demonstrate the amount of the Petitioner's actual 
income or remuneration, and therefore it cannot establish his eligibility under this criterion. Without 
a proper basis for comparison and evidence showing his comprehensive earnings during a sustained 
period predating the filing of the petition, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility 
under one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
10 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22045843 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research associate employed by the I I 
I , I, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of I physics. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had submitted evidence meeting three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria listed under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), but that he did not present sufficient documentation showing his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrating that he was among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in the final merits determination. He 
maintains that he has established eligibility to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true, he or she has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec. 
at375-76. 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then the 
petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do 
not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that he or she is among the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010) ( discussing a two-part 
review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339(W.D. Wash.2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The evidence indicates that since 2018, the Petitioner has been employed as a research associate with 
the I in I Illinois, receiving an annual salary of approximately $65,000. According to 
an August 2021 letter from his employer, "[a]s a research associate, [the Petitioner] is responsible for 
understanding the of the ex eriment and develo ment of the 
algorithms to identify the events in I I which can be applied to and experiments." The 
Petitioner's curriculum vitae provides that atth , he "work s o experiments: I __ an 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of presenting 
documents that satisfied at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).2 
Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner offered evidence of his participation as a judge of 
the work of others, his authorship of scholarly articles in the field in professional publications, and his 
2 The Director concluded that the evidence did not show the Petitioner had received a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) discussed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
challenge this finding. 
2 
original scientific contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner satisfied the three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv)-(vi). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Based on the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence, we 
will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if his or her successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this case, the Petitioner has failed to 
demonstrate that he has attained the required level of acclaim and recognition in the field. As such, 
he has not established eligibility for the classification. 
While the Petitioner has offered documentation satisfying three of the ten initial evidence criteria, two 
of these criteria involve activities that appear to be routine among research scientists. The Petitioner's 
co-authorship of scholarly articles meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and his peer 
review of other scientists' manuscripts constitutes judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director also concluded that the Petitioner has made original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field of I physics based on his co-authorship of articles 
associated with large-scale collaborative research projects. However, the Petitioner has not specified 
the level of his involvement or the significance of his work among hundreds of researchers in these 
projects. 
To establish his standing in the field of I physics, the Petitioner relies heavily on the field's 
response, including citations, to his co-authored scholarly articles. The Petitioner offers evidence to 
show that the number of citations that his work has received is much higher than the average number 
of citations that an article in the field of physics commonly receives. While the Petitioner's field of I I physics is in the larger field of physics, he has not demonstrated that information extrapolated 
from the larger field applies equally to each subfield within physics, including! I physics. Thus, 
the Petitioner's comparison of his citation number in his narrow field with information regarding 
citation in the larger field of physics does not sufficiently establish the level of his acclaim and 
recognition in his field ofL__Jphysics. 
Other evidence in the record similarly fails to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that 
the Petitioner has attained the required level of acclaim and recognition for the classification. 
According to a January 2022 google scholar printout, he had co-authored 34 articles, 4 and his co­
authored work had garnered over 2,000 citations since 201 7. The printout indicates that his most cited 
articles were a 2021 article that had been cited 481 times; his 2015 article that had been cited 223 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) officers should then evaluate the evidencetogetherwhen considering 
the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required 
high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 On his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner lists 5 6 items under "Publications." 
3 
times; his 2020 article that had been cited 148 times; and his 2018 article that had been cited 131 times. 
His two most cited articles, published in 2021 and 2015, respectively, each had over 200 authors who 
were affiliated with a multitude oflaboratories and universities, and credited the Petitioner as an author 
affiliated with the University of I The evidence shows that the articles were associated 
with large-scale collaborative research projects that the Petitioner was involved in when he was a 
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) student at the University of I His third and fourth most cited 
work, published in 2020 and 2018, respectively, was also associated with large-scale collaborative 
research projects that involved hundreds ofresearch scientists. The Petitioner offers reference letters attesting to the  to the importance of these projects, indicating that the had si ificant impact in the field of 
physics. For example, l a physicist at states in his letter that the 
Petitioner "is [a] talented researcher whose research at has helped expand the limits of I !physics. l an associate professor in the Department of Physics, University of I I indicates in her letter that the Petitioner "is at the cutting edge of I physics, particulady 
in the area of ______ 
While the record confirms the importance of these research projects in the field, the evidence, 
including the reference letters, does not reveal the significance of the Petitioner's contributions in these 
projects among hundreds of other research scientists. For example, according to the materials in the 
record concerning the 2015 article, certain authors held the position of research project manager or 
deputy project manager, signifying their leadership role in the project. According to I I 
curriculum vitae, he has served as "one of two co-spokespeople," "interim overall analysis 
coordinator," "co-convener," and "project manager" for these projects. The Petitioner indicates in his 
curriculum vitae that he "Led thd !working group as [a] co-convener'' 
from August 2018 and November 2019. Neither his curriculum vitae nor other evidence in the record 
indicates that he has held any other leadership roles for these projects. The Petitioner has not 
sufficiently explained or established the level of his involvement or the significance of his work in 
these large-scale collaborative research projects. The Petitioner has also not demonstrated that a large 
number of scientists in the field recognize him as one of the lead investigators or as an individual who 
had made major contributions in these projects. 
The evidence reveals that articles that the Petitioner had co-authored with fewer scientists have not 
received the same level of attention in the field as articles that had over 200 co-authors and that were 
associated with large-scale collaborative research projects. For example, the google scholar printout 
notes that the Petitioner co-authored with two other scientists an article published in 2015 in the 
publication Physical Review D; that article received 69 citations. The printout also indicates that the 
Petitioner co-authored with seven other scientists a 2015 article -I I 
published in the journal arXiv; that article received 7 citations. He co-
authored with nine other scientists a 20 18 paper . I I I-published during the International Particle Accelerator Conference; that paper 
received 3 citations. 
The Petitioner has been credited as the first author on a few a ers that were published in conferences, 
such as the 2017 a er and the 2018 a er 
4 
According to the January 2022 go ogle scholar printout, the 201 7 paper received 4 
citations and the 2018 paper received no citation. 
A number of the Petitioner's references- including I the Petitioner's supervisor at the I I and indicate that the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts for one publication and 
one conference. As relating to his service as a manuscript reviewer, we must evaluate the significance 
of his experience to determine if such evidence indicates the required level of acclaim and recognition 
for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The record confirms 
the Petitioner's participation as a reviewer for a paper associated with the 2019 International 
Conference on Physics, Mathematics and Statistics (ICPMS2019), and two articles published in the 
Journal of Instrumentation (JINST). The Petitioner has not claimed, and the evidence does not 
demonstrate, that he has reviewed more than 3 papers. The record is insufficient to confirm that his 
limited experience as a judge of others' work is indictive of his status as one of the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In short, the evidence confirms that the Petitioner was involved in multiple large-scale collaborative 
research projects, while he was a student at the University of and as a research associate 
at thel I that led to his co-authorship of articles that received notable attention in the field. The 
Petitioner, however, has not specified his work, his duties, or demonstrated that his level of 
contributions to these projects that involved hundreds ofresearch scientists supports a finding that he 
is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field. The research 
and associated articles in which he was a primary contributor have received far lower level of attention 
and fewer citations. In addition, he has had limited judging experience, reviewing one paper for a 
conference and two papers for a journal. 
Based on the above discussed reasons, we conclude that the record in the aggregate does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1119-20. Based on this finding, 
we need not consider the separate question of whether his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is an accomplished! I physicist who has been involved in multiple large­
scale collaborative research projects that have received notable attention from the field. As his 
supervisor at the indicates in his letter, the Petitioner's "research has helped to revolutionize 
[the] discipline [of physics] to a greater extent than most can claim." However, the record 
5 Sec also 6 USCJSPolicy Manual,supra, atF.2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative ofbeingoneofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthefield of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); sec also MattcrofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
does not sufficiently show that his level of recognition rises to the required level of sustained national 
or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also Section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility to be classified as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field ofl physics. The appeal will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23272889 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 08, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from 
that decision, as well as four subsequent motions to reopen. The matter is now before us on a fifth 
motion to reopen, in which the Petitioner submits evidence intended to meet one of the evidentiary 
criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that 
satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening, a petitioner must not 
only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, 
Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening of our decision to dismiss the Petitioner's fourth motion. We therefore 
incorporate our prior decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary 
to address the Applicant's claims on motion. 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. I NS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCIS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
2 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "if proceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In his fourth motion, the Petitioner did not identify any error in our previous discussion of the 
Sprudge publication. In our decision dismissing that motion, we also determined that the Petitioner 
had not established that he met a fifth, previously unclaimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
relating to membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields. 
With the present motion, the Petitioner reasserts his eligibility under the same criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). He resubmits the same evidence he provided with his previous motion and 
does not explain what, if anything, is new about the evidence. As we already explained, the evidence 
does not establish that either the IBG or its board of directors is an association which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Additionally, as our prior decision noted, the Petitioner must establish eligibility as of the petition's 
filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for 
reopening the proceedings. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion, or established el igibi I ity 
for the classification he seeks. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision. Therefore, the motion to reopen will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22646759 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer -solutions architect, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this 
matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation concerning the 
beneficiary that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate 
that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is chief executive officer (CEO) and solutions architect for __ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for four of the regulatory criteria, specifically the criteria found at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (viii), and (ix), which includes membership in an association requiring 
outstanding achievement, published material about him or his work, performing in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and commanding a high salary. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director applied the 
regulations incorrectly and ignored evidence in the record that he claimed demonstrates eligibility. 
After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets at least three 
criteria. We will discuss each of the four criteria that the Petitioner claims in detail. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission 
to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon 
recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded to the 
foreign national must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the foreign national was 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. Id. The Petitioner asserts that his professional membership 
with the Young President's Organization (YPO), a global organization of chief executives with local 
chapters across the world, fulfills this criterion. 
The record contains information from the YPO website listing the membership criteria as follows: 
• Under 45 years old. 
• President, CEO, Chairperson of the Board, Managing Director, Managing Partner, 
or Equivalent title. 
• 50 full-time employees, or at least 15 full-time employees and a minimum of $2 
million in annual employee compensation. 
• Minimum revenue by company type, or enterprise value. 
• $13 million for sales, service, manufacturing corporations. 
• $10 million for an agency-type businesses. 
• $260 million, including assets under management. 
• $20 million enterprise value. 
The record also includes a printout of frequently asked questions from the YPO website that states, 
"Meeting the specific quantitative requirements does not automatically guarantee admittance into 
YPO. There are other important, less easily defined requirements that also need to be met. These are 
qualitative in nature and are at the discretion of the current chapter's executive committee." 
The Petitioner also submitted the bylaws of his local chapter inl !Brazil. The bylaws state 
that, in addition to the above membership criteria, a candidate must be recommended by two members, 
and requests for admission of candidates will be examined and approved by the membership director 
of the chapter. 
In support of his membership in YPO, the Petitioner submitted a letter attesting to his membership 
since 2001 and his board membership in various positions at different times, meeting minutes 
identifying the Petitioner as a membership director, and an email announcing the Petitioner as a new 
member of the YPO Board in August 2021, one month after the petition was filed.1 
The Director acknowledged that YPO requires professional achievements of its members and requires 
nomination by other members. However, he noted that the chapter bylaws do not state that YPO 
requires outstanding achievements or uses recognized national or international experts to determine 
membership qualification. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the minimum 
requirements for membership in YPO meets the plain language requirements of the criterion. He also 
concluded that the Petitioner did not provide documentary evidence demonstrating that his 
representation ofYPO is a level of membership that requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
1 A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
3 
condition for admission as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines 
or fields. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director improperly imposed a requirement not in the 
regulations, that an organization's outstanding membership qualifications be expressed in its bylaws. 
He further asserts that YPO does use recognized or international experts to determine membership and 
requires outstanding achievements for admission. He states that the Director did not consider his level 
of membership in his position as a member of the I I board as one requiring outstanding 
achievements. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that YPO's membership criteria requires outstanding achievements 
of its members. The record reflects that YPO's requirements for membership are based on age, job 
title, level of experience and general professional status based on the size and income of the employer. 
Although the Petitioner asserts that additional qualitative requirements apply, the record does not 
identify these additional requirements or establish that they are based on outstanding achievement. 
While we agree that there is no regulatory requirement that the YPO bylaws identify these qualitative 
requirements, no other evidence was submitted to support this assertion or elaborate on these 
additional criteria to show that selection was based on outstanding achievement. Relevant factors that 
may lead to a conclusion that the foreign national's membership in the association was not based on 
outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where membership was 
based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field. 2 Here, the requirements 
for YPO membership identified in the record are possessing a certain age, title, and level of experience. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not support his assertion that recognized national or international experts 
judge outstanding achievements. On appeal, Counsel for the Petitioner identifies YPO as a "peer to 
peer organization where board members determine another's membership, meaning that only 
professional [sic] who have already demonstrated national/international acclaim in the business area 
will judge other members' eligibility." He further asserts that "[m]embers are evaluated by the board, 
according to formalities including proficiency exam, and other writing samples ... " We acknowledge 
that holding a senior executive position for a qualifying company relatively early in one's career is a 
significant professional achievement. However, the Petitioner's assertions are not supported by the 
record. The bylaws state that candidates for membership require recommendation by two members 
and that admission of candidates is approved by the membership director. However, neither the 
bylaws or other evidence in the record demonstrates that candidates are judged on outstanding 
achievements, nor is their evidence of the requirement of an exam or writing sample. Assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533,534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing 
Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be 
substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. 
The Petitioner points to his position as member of the I I board of YPO as evidence of a level 
of membership for which he was judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
attained outstanding achievements in the field of business. However, the bylaws state that the YPO 
chapter is managed by an executive council elected by the majority of members present at the annual 
meeting. No other criteria for election are set forth or described elsewhere in the record. Receiving 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
4 
the majority vote among other members ofYPO does not demonstrate that the candidate was selected 
based on qualifications alone and is insufficient to establish eligibility for this criterion, as the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that all members are nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on the following 
published material: 
• 
• 
• 
• • 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• I in Est ado de Sao Paulo (2012) . 
e Sao Paulo (2004) . I in Estado d 
in Folha 
I in Gazeta Mer de Sao Paulo (1997) . 
cantile (2004) . 
Lin Gazeta Mercantile (2004) . 
I in Propmar k (2004) . 
in Folh a de Sao Paulo (2004) . 
e Sao Paulo (2003) . in Folha d 
l in ClientSA Magazine (2003) . 
I publication and date not 
provided. 
• I ________________ in Valor Economico (2004). 
The Petitioner also submitted media data for four of the publications, including Estado de Sao Paulo, 
Folha de Sao Paulo, Gazeta Mercantile, and Propmark. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner of several deficiencies, 
including that: 
• The article title oes not indicate the 
name of the publication in the English translation. 
• The Petitioner is not the subject of the article titled 
• The Petitioner is not the subject of the article titled ' and 
the author's name is not provided. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
5 
• The article titled ___________________ does not 
include the author's name and no information about the publication was provided. 
The Director further stated that the record did not include sufficient information about the publications 
to demonstrate that they qualified as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner submitted the same articles and media data. In a brief submitted 
with the RFE response, counsel for the Petitioner also highlighted quotes from three of the articles 
specifically mentioning the Petitioner. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. He noted the following about the published material: 
• The article titled did not include _________________ 
the author's name in the English translation and does not qualify because it is an 
interview with the Petitioner. Petitioner. • The article titled ________________ does not list the 
author's name and the Petitioner is not the subject of the article. 
• The article titled! I does not include the 
author's name. 
• The article titled does not include the _______________ 
author's name. 
• The article titled ___ is not primarily about 
the Petitioner and his work in the field. 
• The article titled does not include the author's name. 
• The article titled does not ___________________ 
include the author's name. 
Additionally, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit independent, objective evidence 
of the circulation statistics of any of the publications to demonstrate that each qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
On appeal the Petitioner does not submit additional evidence regarding this criterion. Counsel for the 
Petitioner states "as a result of the extensive documentation submitted on this topic, it is clear that [the 
Petitioner] has been a major figure in the specialized media as a reference and highly accomplished 
businessman, with published material about [him] in professional or major business publications or 
other major media." 
The Petitioner did not include the authors' names for nine of the eleven total articles in the record. 
The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, we will consider only articles that include the author's 
name, identified as: 
• in Folha de Sao Paulo (2004). • I in Folha de Sao Paulo (2003). 
6 
These articles are not about the Petitioner. Instead, the articles are about the outsourcing industry in 
Brazil and a government employment program. Articles that are not about the foreign national do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix; see also, 
e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Relating to the Race for a Space article, 
the material mentions a single comment from the Petitioner involving language barriers in 
employment; the article does not discuss the Petitioner and is not about him. Likewise, regarding the I I article, the material mentions a single comment from the Petitioner about a 
social project to employ young people in Brazil; the article does not discuss the Petitioner and is not 
about him. We also note that, even if the remaining articles had included the author and publication 
details, only one represents material about the Petitioner. The _______ article includes 
an excerpt from an interview with the Petitioner discussing his views on business success, and also 
includes a summary of his experience as an entrepreneur and executive. However, the remaining 
articles are brief announcements about the Petitioner's career progression or about projects and 
business developments with the Petitioner's employers. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the publications represents a professional or 
major trade publication or other major medium. 4 Although the Petitioner provided media data for 
Estado de Sao Paulo, Folha de Sao Paulo, Gazeta Mercantile, and Propmark, we note that the evidence 
does not demonstrate that any of these publications represents a professional or major trade publication 
or other major medium. The media kits for Estado de Sao Paulo and Folha de Sao Paulo are dated 
2021 and 2017, respectively, nearly 10 years from the dates of the articles provided. Similarly, the 
publication data for Gazeta is from 2018, 14 years from the publication dates of the material provided. 
Further, the Petitioner did not support the record with independent, objective evidence corroborating 
the publications' claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See 
Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
(concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 
2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). Additionally, the data submitted for Propmark is 
undated and no data was provided for ClientSA Magazine or Valor Economico. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his documentation satisfies 
all of the elements of this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (indicating that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) 
is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 5 
The Petitioner asserts that he erformed in critical roles for various or anizations including as a founder 
and partner of in Brazil, and as CEO 
in the United States. The Director concluded that the record demonstrates the Petitioner's leading or 
critical role at ___________ but the evidence is insufficient to establish the 
distinguished reputation of the organization. The Director further concluded that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's leading or critical role in the other claimed organizations, or the distinguished 
reputations of those organizations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide new or additional evidence to demonstrate the distinguished 
reputation of any organization, or his leading or critical role with other organizations. Counsel for the 
Petitioner states in the brief on appeal that the Petitioner "created an impressive portfolio of companies 
through several acquisitions" while with 
The Petitioner has not established that __________ has a distinguished reputation, 
with "distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
While the record includes evidence relating to various acquisitions within the portfolio ofl I I this evidence does not discuss the reputation of The record 
does not include evidence demonstrating that I lhas a distinguished reputation. Nor 
does the record include evidence concerning the reputation of any other organizations with which the 
Petitioner is associated. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The burden is on the petitioner to 
provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different countries should be 
evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply 
converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States. 6 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his salary as CEO and Managing Partner 
for I The Petitioner submitted his 2019 tax return, and data from two 
salary report websites, Payscale and Glassdoor, and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The salary 
reports reflect the average salary data for CEO positions in Brazil and the United States in 2019. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Meniam-Webster's online dictionary 
defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person"). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
8 
The Director concluded that the evidence was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's salary is 
high relative to others working in the field, as the salary reports are representative of base salaries and 
do not provide a review of salary information of members of the field with more experience. The 
Director also noted that the salary reports reflect the average wages of CEOs, rather than CEO­
Solutions Architects, as described on the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide new or additional evidence to establish that he commands 
a high salary relative to the compensation paid to others in his field. In the brief on appeal, counsel 
for the Petitioner asserts that the Petitioner's salary derives from his role as CEO and Managing Partner 
and states that actual salary information of other CEOs is not openly shared and available for 
comp an son. 
We note that the Petitioner asserts that his total remuneration includes salary, bonuses and stock option 
compensation. He compares his total remuneration to the base salary earnings of others, which is not 
an accurate and persuasive comparison. 
Further, the Petitioner compares his salary as the CEO and Managing Partner to that of salaries of 
CEOs, without the duties and responsibilities of Managing Partners. He did not establish that he 
commands a high salary in relation to other CEO and Managing Partners performing both roles. Both 
precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
did not show that the comparison of average and median salaries of single-role positions reflects his 
commandment of a high salary in relation to other multi-role CEOs. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not show either a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or demonstrate that he satisfies three of ten initial criteria. Specifically, he did not demonstrate that 
he met the criteria relating to memberships, published material, leading or critical role, or high salary. 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
9 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has experience in business 
and as an executive, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090720 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as a noncitizen of "extraordinary ability" in the field of speech and 
theatrical coaching. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . The requested, first-preference category makes immigrant visas available to 
noncitizens who demonstrate extraordinary ability based on "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and "extensive documentation" showing recognition of achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the self-petition. The Director concluded that, 
contrary to regulations, the Petitioner did not establish his satisfaction of three of ten preliminary, 
evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of evidence . See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de 
nova review, we find that the Petitioner meets the preliminary requirements but has not demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim as a speech and theatrical coach. We will therefore dismiss 
the appeal. 1 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability, a petitioner must: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• Seek U.S. entry to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability; and 
• Show that their entry would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner submits additional evidence on appeal. But the Director's request for evidence (RFE) sufficiently notified 
the Petitioner of proof required for both the preliminary criteria and a final merits determination and afforded him a 
reasonabl e opportunity to provide it. Thus, we decline to consider his evidence on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 I&N 
Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017)(citing Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988)). 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a degree of expertise identifying a noncitizen as "one of that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of a noncitizen's extraordinary ability must include either receipt of "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten evidentiary requirements. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If a petitioner meets either of these standards, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then determine whether the record demonstrates sustained national or 
international acclaim placing the petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of their field. 
See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of 
extraordinary ability). 
II. THE PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate his receipt of a major, international recognized award. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). But the Director found that he met one of the ten alternate regulatory standards. The 
record demonstrates his participation as a judge of others' work in speech and theatrical coaching or 
an allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Thus, to preliminarily qualify for the requested 
classification, the Petitioner must meet at least two other criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has established himself as the subject 
of published materials in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We also find that, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), he has demonstrated his performance in a critical role for a distinguished 
organization. 
A. Published Material about the Petitioner 
To meet this standard, noncitizens must demonstrate that "professional or major trade publications or 
other major media" published material about them that "relat[ ed] to [their] work in the field for which 
classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Evidence must include "the title, date, and author 
of the material, and any necessary translation." Id. 
The Petitioner is a native of Cuba and a resident of Colombia. He submitted copies of ten print or 
online articles mentionin him includin a 2011 article from a daily newspaper in Colombia's capital 
entitled The article discusses the Petitioner's coaching 
of the ________ explaining that, when thel the Petitioner taught 
him theatrical techniques to improve his public speaking ability. The Petitioner stated the article's 
initial publication in the newspaper's printed version. 2 
The Director found that, contrary to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner did not establish the 
newspaper as a "major med[ium ]" in Colombia. The Director noted that the Petitioner's RFE response 
included proof that, in 2020, the newspaper's website generated more visits than any other "news and 
2 The Petitioner submitted a 2020 online printout of the 2011 article. But he indicated the article's initial publication in 
the newspaper's printed version. When describing articles issued online, the Petitioner stated that they were "published 
on" particular Internet addresses, or Unifonn Resource Locators (URLs) (emphasis added). In contrast, when describing 
articles issued in print, he stated that they were "published in" certain publications. ( emphasis added). He described the 
2011 article as "published in" the newspaper. We therefore find that he indicated the article's publication in print. The 
record does not establish whether the newspaper also issued the article in 2011 on its website. 
2 
media" site in the country. But, because the Petitioner omitted evidence of the newspaper's circulation 
in 2011, the Director found insufficient proof that the paper constituted a major medium at the time of 
the article's publication. 
While the Petitioner argues that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not expressly require evidence of a 
publication's circulation at the time of an article's issuance, we find that the Director reasonably 
requested information about the newspaper's earlier circulation. Evidence about publications "should 
establish that the[ir] circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics." 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. Thus, USCIS considers a medium as "major" based on its 
level of circulation or viewership, with "major" media constituting those with relatively "high" 
numbers of readers or viewers. Id. And, to determine how many readers saw an article, the Agency 
must logically focus on the medium's circulation near the time of the article's issuance. As the initial 
publication of the article about the Petitioner predates the newspaper's online viewership statistics by 
almost 10 years, the Director reasonably requested earlier circulation information. 
The Director, however, overlooked evidence of the newspaper's earlier circulation. The Petitioner's 
RFE response included a printout from an online organization that tracks media in more than 30 
countries worldwide. The printout cites a study that found the newspaper the most widely read print 
medium in Colombia in 2016, not long after the article's publication. Because of this earlier 
circulation information, we find that a preponderance of evidence establishes the newspaper as a major 
Colombian medium at the time of the article's publication. Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, 
the Petitioner has satisfied the standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This criterion requires a noncitizen to demonstrate their performance "in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first considers whether a petitioner's role in an organization, establishment, or its division or 
department was leading or critical. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. Evidence of a "leading" 
role must establish the noncitizen as a leader within an organization, establishment, or its division or 
department. Id. In contrast, evidence of a "critical" role must establish that a petitioner contributed 
in a significantly important way to the outcome of the activities of an organization, establishment, or 
its division or department. Id. 
Next, to determine whether an organization, establishment, or its division or department has a 
"distinguished reputation," USCIS considers a variety of factors, including relative size and longevity. 
Id. The term "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person." Id. 
Although the Petitioner claims to meet this criterion on multiple bases, we find that he has 
demonstrated his critical role for a distinguished Colombian film festival. The record establishes him 
as a founder and academic director of the ________ festival, which has occurred 
annually since 2011. Evidence indicates that the festival generates significant favorable media 
attention in Latin America and presents films from around the world. The record therefore establishes 
the festival as "distinguished." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
3 
The Director found the Petitioner to be "instrumental" in developing the film festival. But the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the festival's status as an "organization" or 
"establishment." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The term "organization" ordinarily means "an 
organized body of people with a particular purpose." Oxford Dictionary, https://www.google.com/ 
search?q=organization. The film festival that the Petitioner founded meets this definition, as evidence 
identifies the festival as a group of people with the shared purpose of producing an annual film festival. 
Also, we previously found an Albanian film festival to constitute an organization. See Krasniqi v. 
Dibbins, 558 F.Supp.3d 168, 188-89 (D.N.J. 2021). Thus, we find that the Colombian film festival 
constitutes an organization under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In Krasniqi, we found that the noncitizen submitted insufficient evidence of her role in the Albanian 
film festival, such as her specific duties. 558 F.Supp.3d at 188-89. The Petitioner, however, provided 
a letter from the Colombian film festival's director, listing the Petitioner's annual festival activities as 
including: coordinating workshops and the attendance of film judges; lecturing; participating as a 
judge; and moderating forums. The duties indicate that the Petitioner has made significant 
contributions to the festival. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) App'x. A preponderance of evidence 
therefore demonstrates his performance in a critical role for a distinguished organization. 
III. THE FINAL MERITS DETERMINATION 
As required, the Petitioner has met at least three of ten preliminary evidentiary criteria for a noncitizen 
of extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will therefore evaluate the evidence in its 
entirety to determine whether it demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements in the field of speech and theatrical coaching, marking the Petitioner as "one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Most of the published articles about the Petitioner in his designated field of speech and theatrical 
coaching date back to 2011, when he coached Colombia's I Ion public speaking. Those 
materials, however, are now more than 10 years old. The Petitioner must demonstrate that he has 
"sustained" acclaim in the field since then. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner is a university professor of arts and communications sciences in Colombia. But he has 
demonstrated his concurrent work as a speech and theatrical coach of I I since 2011. The record also includes evidence of more recent acclaim for his coaching 
work. For example, a senior partner for a communications consulting company where the Petitioner 
works stated the firm's incorporation of his method of speech coaching into the company's training 
programs. The partner also described the Petitioner as "a consultant of critical importance to the 
Company" whose public speaking evaluations are "highly valuable" to the firm and its clients. A 
business executive, who said she has worked with the Petitioner several times, recognized him "as one 
of the most relevant experts in oral communication, non-verbal language, and spokesperson training 
in Colombia and Latin America." And a former Colombian minister of education whom the Petitioner 
coached stated: "I have not found a consultant in oral communication and media training, more 
capable and effective than [the Petitioner]." 
4 
This recent praise for the Petitioner's coaching, however, does not sufficiently establish his 
sustentation of acclaim on a national or international basis. The letters also do not demonstrate how 
his expertise corresponds to a person that has risen to the very top of the field. The letter from the 
communications consulting company does not indicate whether the firm's training programs also 
incorporate methods from consultants other than the Petitioner, or that his methods have sustained 
nationwide or international acclaim. The business executive's description of the Petitioner as "as one 
of the most relevant experts in oral communication, non-verbal language, and spokesperson training 
in Colombia and Latin America" does not demonstrate that he has risen to the top of his field or has 
sustained national or international acclaim. And the former Colombian minister's description of the 
Petitioner as the most capable and effective communications consultant he has found means little 
without evidence of how many other consultants the former minister has found. Further, the letters 
are from people within the Petitioner's circle of professional acquaintances and do not reference 
evidence of "extensive documentation" of his accomplishments in the field. See Mishra v. Richardson, 
No. l:20-cv-991, (LMB/TCB), 2021 WL 1566071, *3 (E.D. Va. Apr. 20, 2021) (finding letters from 
colleagues at a petitioner's employer insufficient to demonstrate national or international acclaim); 
see also Bodhankar v. USCIS, No. 119-cv-706-MAD/CFH, 2020 WL 777211, *1 (N.D. N.Y. Feb. 18, 
2020) (finding evidence of a petitioner's development of his employer insufficient to establish national 
or international acclaim). In short, these letters do not establish the Petitioner as "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We acknowled e the Petitioner's authorshi of a 2019 book on s eech and theatrical coachin entitled 
But the 
record lacks sufficient evidence of acclaim for the work or its author. The Petitioner asserted that a 
2020 online article entitled "offers a critical review of his book, giving 
it high praise." But we do not find the article to be sufficiently laudatory. In total, the portion of the 
article about the Petitioner's work states: 
This book shows how to develop a speech that is shocking and seductive for the viewer, 
through effective communication theories focused on the construction of a public 
personality (figure). It contains multiple exercises with which to put this knowledge 
into practice in any circumstance and before any type of public. 
The article is insufficiently praiseworthy to constitute sustained national or international acclaim. 
Letters from officials at communications consulting companies where the Petitioner has worked also 
reference his 2019 book. They describe the book as "very practical," "well-supported," and "novel." 
One of the officials also stated that his company urges its clients to read the book. But the letters lack 
praise of the book sufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's place among those in the small percentage 
at the very top of the speech and theatrical coaching field. 
The record contains other published materials and testimonials about the Petitioner. But these 
materials largely praise his work in areas such as film, drama, and artistic research, which appear to 
be outside his designated field of expertise. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his chosen field 
of speech and theatrical coaching encompasses these other areas of expertise. See, e.g., Integrity 
Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 131 F.Supp.3d 721, 731 (S.D. Ohio 2015) 
5 
(upholding our finding that competitive gymnastics and gymnastics coaching are not the same area of 
expertise). 
The record reflects the Petitioner's talents in many areas. But he designated speech and theatrical 
coaching as his field of endeavor and seeks classification in a highly restrictive immigrant visa 
category, intended for those at the very top of their fields. The Petitioner need not establish himself 
as the most qualified speech and theatrical coach. But, even considering the evidence in the aggregate, 
he has not demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim in the field or his ranking among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The record establishes the Petitioner's satisfaction of the preliminary, regulatory requirements for a 
noncitizen of extraordinary ability. But he has not demonstrated sustained national or international 
acclaim in the designated field of speech and theatrical coaching. We will therefore affirm the 
Director's denial of the petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23271189 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neurobiology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner has filed two appeals of the Director's decision. We sustained the other appeal, which 
has rendered this one moot, and it will be dismissed on that basis. 1 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner filed two separate appeals of the Director's decision, and we are adjudicating both today. Sustaining the 
other appeal has rendered this appeal moot, and it will be dismissed on that basis. 
However , because the other appeal I I is being sustained, the end result for the Petitioner will be approval 
of the underlying I-140 petition. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23214150 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field ofl I seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctoral degree in physiology in Chile at ____________ I lin 2012. Some of his doctoral studies took place at academic research institutions in Brazil, 
Chile, the United States, and Italy. The Petitioner most recently entered the United States as an H-lB 
nonimmigrant to work as a researcher/project scientist at the University of I 
In June 2022, he was granted H-lB status to work as a research engineer at _______ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied several of these criteria, relating to original contributions 
of major significance; participation as a judge of the work of others; receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes for excellence in the field; commanding a high salary or significantly 
high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field; membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members as judged 
by experts in their disciplines or fields; published materials about him in professional or major trade 
publications or major media; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to authorship of articles. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he meets six additional criteria noted above, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets the requisite minimum of three criteria, and that after a 
final merits determination, he merits a first preference immigrant visa as an individual with 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion, and we agree. The Google Scholar database 
showed over 200 citations of his published articles. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
2 
(USCIS) Policy Manual states "a goodly number" of such citations "may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." We believe that is indeed the case 
here and, as such, conclude he has met this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's "original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. " 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
This criterion requires evidence of the person's "original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The first 
step in the analysis is to determine whether the person made an original contribution to the field. 
Group efforts do not lessen the originality of a contribution; all parties identified as part of the group 
are considered to have made the contribution. The phrase "major significance" is not defined by the 
regulations or policy. Therefore, we utilize a plain language reading of the criterion and require a 
person show their contribution made more than a de minimis impact on the field. 
The record contains detailed, probative letters from several research colleagues in the Petitioner's 
field. For example, one colleague describes how the "[Petitioner] has been developing technology, 
new tools, and experimental setups to study I He further explains how he 
and his "collaborators in Brazil and Sweden have been using some of these tools to conduct 
ex eriments where the I I activity of rodents is recorded as they actively perform different 
Another colleague describes how her work with the Petitioner focuses on developing 
recording patches that can be placed ontol lskin in order to record data. 
She explains how the Petitioner is an expert in L I I I and has provided tremendous value in designing, testing, and deploying these 
groundbreaking systems." She also explains that the Petitioner's research contributions are helping 
her deploy a National Institutes of Health (NIH) study in Ukraine for children with 
due to prenatall I exposure. She states: 
Patches are revolutionary and allow researchers to monitor I systems in a 
continuous and noninvasive manner in ways that were previously not possible with 
such ease .... we are only at the tip of the iceberg in this area .... He has conducted 
research on how the I and the interaction between the 
He has worked to understand the 
specifically the impact ofl I on the 
I 
Additional evidence, including several more letter writers attesting in meaningful detail to his original 
contributions to the field of I the award of grants to conduct! I research, and 
his scholarly contributions in the form of scholarly articles that have been repeatedly cited to, all 
support finding that he has made original contributions of major significance in his field. The 
Petitioner has satisfied this criterion by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
3 
To meet this criterion, a pet1t10ner must show evidence of the person's "participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification 
for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The petitioner must show that the 
person has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that the person actually 
participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's role advising undergraduate students at the University 
of in his field of I sciences. The evidence further shows 
that he served as a thesis advisor to graduate students in in Chile. The record contains detailed and 
meaningful letters from colleagues concerning his work judging the work of others in his field. As 
such, he has demonstrated he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, the published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work 
in the field, not just about the person's employer or another organization that the person is associated 
with. In addition, published material that includes only a brief citation or passing reference to the 
person's work is not "about" that person. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535 (S.D.N.Y. 
2012) (articles about the Iranian table tennis team mentioning a person only briefly were not about 
him); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nev. 2008) (articles focusing on a 
character or show were not about the actor). 
The Petitioner submitted three published articles that cover the Petitioner's work. One article titled 
was published in a 
Chilean newspaper of national circulation on 2021. It discusses the Petitioner's work, but 
does not include an author and therefore does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Another article dated 2021 in the Coun News titled! I 
discusses the fact that the Petitioner 
was one of36 scientists nationally who received this grant for research from the National Science 
Foundation (NSF). However, since the article shows no author and appears to have been only 
circulated locall it does not meet the re uirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) either. The final 
article titled datedl J 2019 and written by 
______ was published in Ethology, Zoology Scient[fic News. The English translation of 
this article however, provides no indication about whether this is a professional or major trade 
publication. Nor was any independent evidence provided to show this publication constitutes "major 
media." As such, none of the articles provided meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Final Merits 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, having provided evidence that he meets at 
least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) as a researcher specializing in the area of 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of 
4 
the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
The evidence establishes that, as a researcher at two preeminent educational and research institutions 
in the United States, the Petitioner has achieved sustained acclaim in the field for his work in 
_______ patches that may have the ability to revolutionize research and medical 
practices worldwide. For instance, the patches he developed measure ______ 
continuous monitoring to medical personnel in a noninvasive wa which is 
the care of vulnerable populations such a 
patients. He has demonstrated the effectiveness of his research and its application by gaining 
prestigious funding awards from national research institutions and foundations including NIH, NSF, 
and the I I Institute. Furthermore, his colleagues describe him as a leader in his field and 
someone who is sought out to present at scientific meetings and in seminars organized by important 
research institutes. The three articles provided show that his work has garnered international 
recognition, with one article published in a Chilean national newspaper, and another in a Russian 
language scientific publication. His coll ea ue at the Institute describes how the Petitioner's 
research will help in treating In particular, the technique developed by the 
Petitioner allows light controlled remotely and is used by 
researchers looking at _________ model. The importance of the Petitioner's ongoing 
research and the application of the tools he has developed to assist other researchers in areas of major 
importance to the U.S. medical research community places him as one of the small percentage at the 
top of his field. 
C. Continue to Work in the Field 
Per section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act, the Petitioner must establish that he seeks to enter the United 
States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The Petitioner has indicated that he is 
employed at I I University as a research scientist and there is no indication in the record that he 
has any plans other than to continue to perform work in his field. As such, this requirement appears 
to be met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence and demonstrated in the final merits 
determination that he is researcher of extraordinary ability. In addition, he has shown that he will 
continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23060846 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public relations (PR) director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a degree in PR from ______ University in 2014. She worked for 
various agencies as a PR specialist from 2012 to to 2015, and as a freelance PR manager from 2015 to 
201 7. In 201 7, she founde a a PR agency in Russia where she served as director. 
Since March 2019, the Petitioner has been intermittently in the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor. The Petitioner intends to establish her own new PR firm in New York. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets five of the criteria, and that she has submitted evidence comparable to receipt 
of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
As explained below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of 
the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The wording of the regulation requires the prizes or awards to be received by the individual, not by his or 
her employer. 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner documented her employers' receipt of various awards. The Petitioner asse1ied that 
individuals do not receive PR awards in Russia, and therefore her emp layers' receipt of the awards should 
be considered comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )( 4). 
2 
The chief executive officer of _________ where the Petitioner worked from 2013 to 
2015, stated that "Russian National awards in the field of PR ... are given to agencies/companies that 
implemented certain projects" and "can't be given to a specific person." The official stated that the 
Petitioner contributed significantly to the projects that won awards for I 
In denying the petition, the Director observed that the Petitioner did not personally receive the awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the claim that there are no individual PR awards in Russia, and that her 
employers' receipt of awards should therefore constitute comparable evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence when a given 
criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation. But the burden is on the Petitioner to show 
that the criterion does not readily apply. We acknowledge the Petitioner's former employer's assertions, 
but the Petitioner has not submitted statements or information from officials of the awarding entities 
themselves to establish that the entities only give awards to organizations, and not to individuals. The 
Petitioner has also not established that her former employer is in a position to speak for those 
organizations. 
Also, the Petitioner must establish that the submitted evidence is comparable to the criteria described in 
the regulation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Involvement in an award-winning 
project does not necessarily reflect the awarding entity's intention to recognize the work of an individual 
participant. The strongest evidence of that intention would generally come from the awarding entity itself, 
rather than an award recipient such as the Petitioner's former employer. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence or statements from the awarding entities to confirm that the Petitioner's contributions to the 
projects weighed significantly on the selection of the awardrecipients, such thattheawarding of the p1izes 
constituted recognition of the Petitioner's excellence in her field of endeavor. 
With regard to the selection process, we acknowled e a letter from l head of the 
Department of Public Relations in Business at University. I I indicated 
that he has served "as a Jury Member of the wards." He also statedthatthatthevarious awards 
"clearly demonstrate □ success and recognition of [the Petitioner's] outstanding PR work ... because she 
was the one who created, led, and managed the PR campaigns of the projects." But the Petitioner's 
employer did not win an award froml I Rather, the project was named as a finalist for such an 
award. I ldidnot claim to have served on juries for the other awarding entities, and therefore 
he has not established that he can directly attest to the other entities' selection processes. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of this criterion, orto establish 
that her evidence is comparable to what the regulation requires. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that she met this criterion through memberships in the Russian Public Relations 
Association (RASO) and the Global Women in PR (GWPR). On appeal, the Petitioner addresses only 
3 
her claimed RASO membership, and therefore we consider her claims regarding GWPR to be 
abandoned.1 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the vice president of RASO, stating that the Beneficiary's 
achievements qualified her for membership in the organization. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the Petitioner did not submit a copy of her 
membership certificate in RASO. The Director asked the Petitioner to submit "[t]he section of the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership." 
In response, the Petitioner submitted another letter from RASO 's vice president, who asserted: "we only 
accept individuals who have distinguished themselves as the most extraordinary PR professionals among 
their peers. We invited [the Petitioner] to join our organization because she has distinguished herself 
among her peers." The reference to an invitation to join appears to conflict with the previous letter from 
this same official, indicating that the Petitioner filed an application to join RASO. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from RASO's website, indicating that "the procedure for joining 
RASO" consists of filing an application f orm, to be considered by the executive committee. The 
submitted printout does not describe the minimum requirements for admission into membership. 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted direct documentary evidence 
of her membership in RASO or the organization's membership requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout from RASO's website. Where a petitioner has had an 
opportunity to submit required evidence prior to the denial, we will generally not consider new evidence 
submitted on appeal that the Petitioner could have submitted in response to an RFE. 2 The RFE provided 
the Petitioner an opportunity to submit further evidence material to her claim of membership in RASO, 
and identified specific documents. The Petitioner neither submitted the requested documents nor 
explained their absence. Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry 
shall be groundsfordenyingthe petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that the printouts from RASO's website would have 
materially affected the outcome of the Director's decision. The printout does not mention any 
requirement for outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. Rather, "the procedure for 
joining RASO" consists of submitting an application form, "two detailed written recommendations from 
RASO members who are familiar with [the applicant's] professional experience," and "a 2-minute video 
message ... about [the applicant's] professional experience and the goals of joining the Association." 
The submitted letters from RASO officials do not address this publicly available information from the 
organization's own website or reconcile that information with their own claims of stricter membership 
requirements. 
1 See Matter olR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US.Atty Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were a bandonedas he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 SccMatterofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 764(BIA l 988)andMatterofObaigbcna, 19 I&NDec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
4 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted several articles about a bicycle ride and contest inl Ito promote the 
anniversary of a brand of cream cheese. These articles do not mention the Petitioner, but the Petitioner 
asserts that the articles are about her work in the field because she organized the event. The regulation, 
however, requires the published materials to be about the individual. The Petitioner's work in the field 
of public relations entails getting publicity for events that she is promoting, but that publicity is about the 
events in question, rather than about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field of PR. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted printoutsofarticles about various events organized while 
she was employed by the city of I These articles are not about the Petitioner, relating to 
her work in the field of public relations. Rather, most of the articles are press releases that the Petitioner 
wrote, or which name her as a contact. One article, about a then-upcoming! !celebration, included 
a two-sentence quotation from the Petitioner describing the previous year's event. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that some of the articles do not mention the Petitioner's name, and 
therefore are not about her. Other articles were written by, rather than about, the Petitioner. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that "[ss Jome of the published materials ... do not mention the 
Beneficiary's name directly," but the Petitioner maintains that the absence of her name "does not 
necessarily mean that the material is not about the Beneficiary's work." The regulation,however, requires 
both that the published material relate to the Petitioner's work and that it be "about" her. Materials that 
do not identify the Petitioner do not fully satisfy these requirements. 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that the articles are about the Petitioner's work in the field of PR The 
Petitioner contends: "The law does not require that press articles 'cover or discuss in detail' Beneficiaty's 
contributions to her field of endeavor." The regulation requires the published materials to be "about'' the 
Petitioner; a passing mention is not sufficient. According to guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual, the 
Petitioner and her work need not be the only subject of the published material; published material that 
covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of her work in the field and mentions her in 
connection to the work may be considered material "about" the Petitioner, relating to her work. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The submitted materials do not include a substantial 
discussion of the Petitioner's PR work. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
All of the Petitioner's documented employment experience has been in Russia, with her remunerntion 
paid in rubles þÿ ( ½  ) .  A letter from indicated that the Petitioner's "monthly income constituted" 
þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017, þÿ ½  1 0 5 , 0 0 0  in 2018, and þÿ ½  1 4 2 , 0 0 0  in 2019, plus þÿ ½  2 7 0 , 0 0 0  in "bonuses for the 
implementation of customer PR campaigns." The letter did not specify the timing of the bonus payments 
or itemize the amounts of individut payments. Also, the record does not specify other duties that 1he 
Petitioner may have performed fo in addition to those of a PR specialist, which might have 
affected the level of her compensation there. 
The Petitioner submitted translations of Russian-language online materials to establish a basis for 
comparison. An article fromSostav indicates that "the average PR specialist salary" inl in June 
2018 was P45,650permonth. A page from Trud indicates that, in 2019, the average monthly salary for 
a PR manager in I was þÿ ½  6 6 , 6 0 6 .  Another chart from Trud indicated that the monthly salary in 
I lwas þÿ ½  8 5 , 8 1 6 ,  butthe date forth at figure is not clear from the translation provided. The Petitioner 
did not submit full Russian-language printouts, but rather individual graphs and tables with translations 
of the data within those materials. 
In the RFE, the Director requested "independent objective documentary evidence," such as tax returns, 
to corroborate the salary figures in the letter from I The Director also requested further evidence 
to allow a comparison between the Petitioner's earnings and those of others in the field. 
Translated invoices show payments from to to the Petitioner totaling þÿ ½ 1,320,000 between March 
2016 and April 2018. 
Invoice Date Amount Annual Total 
2 March 17, 2016 þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  
3 April 17, 2016 120,000 þÿ ½  2 0 0 , 0 0 0  
6 June 30, 2017 270,000 
7 July 31, 2017 200,000 
8 August 21, 201 7 240,000 710,000 
1 February 19, 2018 140,000 
2 March 19, 2018 90,000 
3 April 30, 2018 180,000 410,000 
Total Pl,320,000 
The developer of a mobile phone app stated that her company paid IP140,000permonth from 
March to September 2019, for a total of þÿ ½  9 8 0 , 0 0 0 ,  to promote the product. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of job announcements for PR manager, specialist, and director positions 
inl and I showingmonthlysalariesrangingfromP45,000to þÿ ½  1 2 0 , 0 0 0 .  
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted enough evidence to permit a 
comparison between the Petitioner's remunerntion and that of others in the field. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner correctly observes that the Director mistook the Petitioner's claimed monthly 
income for annual income, and that there is no specific requirement for the Petitioner to submit tax 
returns. Nevertheless, we agree with the Director's fundamental determination that the submitted 
evidence is insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements of the criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she "submitted copies of sixteen (16) monthly invoices for payments 
from her customers." We find only eight invoices in the record, along with English translations of those 
same eight documents. 
The annual totals on the submitted invoices, described above, are considerably lower than the annual 
amounts extrapolated from learlierletter: þÿ ½  9 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017 and þÿ ½  1 , 2 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2018. The 
incomplete sequences of numbers indicate that some invoices were not submitted. The burden of pmof 
is on the Petitioner to fully document her remuneration and account for the difference between the 
amounts on the receipts and those inl I letter. 
The submitted copies of job announcements show monthly salaries, which are oflimited value when the 
record shows that the Petitioner does not receive a monthly salary. The Petitioner describes the in voices 
as "monthly," but this description implies regularly scheduled payments. The invoices show varying 
payments at irregular intervals on a per-project basis, with the Petitioner identified as the "Contractor" 
andl las the "Customer." The number 1 on the February 2018 invoice suggests thatl did 
not pay the Petitioner in January 2018. 
The Petitioner asserts that the mobile app developer discussed above paid the Petitioner þÿ ½  9 8 0 ,,000 in "total 
annual remunerntion for her PR services." The record does not document the payments. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that these payments were made directly to the Petitioner herself, as her own 
remuneration, insteadoff ees paid to which would have covered a number of expenses in addition 
to the Petitioner's own remuneration. 
There is no specific requirement that the Petitioner submit her income tax returns, but the fragmentary 
materials that the Petitioner submitted do not establish her total annual compensation for comparison 
against the submitted salary figures. The invoices show that the Petitioner receives varying rates of pay 
on a project-by-project basis, but the Petitioner has not provided data for others in the PR field who 
likewise are paid by project rather than a regular monthly salary. 
The submitted documentation provides an incomplete and inconsistent picture of the Petitioner's 
remuneration, and the comparative figures relate to fixed salaries rather than variable per-project 
compensation. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof 
to meet the requirements of the criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria, pertaining 
to original contributions of major significance and leading or critical roles for organizations or 
7 
establishments with a distinguished reputation, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, 
we reserve those issues. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has engaged in successful 
projects for some high-profile clients, but it does not show that this success has translated into 
individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international 
acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act.4 Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to theverytop of the field of endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
4 We note that, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted four job offer letters, all dated within days of each other 
in late September 2020. Three were from local businesses inl I a window-cleaning service, a skin care 
center, and a jewelry manufacturer. A fourth letter does not identify the company or provide any details a bout the nature 
of its business activity. The Petitioner has not established that offers of this kind are of a caliber indicative of sustained 
nationalorintemationalacclaimorhavingreached the very top of the field. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22143529 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a specialist in aerospace technology and !modelling , seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four of the 
evidentiary criteria in addition to the two that the Director concluded she met. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a specialist in aerospace technology and the application of _______ 
the modelling of air transportation demand and other issues in the aviation sector. She earned a 
Diploma of Candidate of Sciences in technical sciences, e uivalent to a doctorate degree in the United 
States, from the in 2015, and is currently 
employed as a senior operational analyst by __ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as 
a judge of the work of others in her field, and we agree with this determination. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the following evidentiary criteria: 1 
• (ii) -membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (v)-original contributions of major significance in the field 
• (viii) - a leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation 
• (ix) - a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field 
In support of her claim to these criteria, the Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal. Where, as 
here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an 
opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision regarding her previous claim to the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) relating to published material about her and her work in the field in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. We will therefore consider that claim to be abandoned. 
2 
on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Therefore, our review of her claims below will only consider evidence in the record 
before the Director. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her membership in four professional associations. 
We initially note that the evidence regarding one of these, the National Air Transportation Association, 
indicates that the Petitioner's business, not the Petitioner, is a member. As for the remaining three 
associations, she submitted evidence confirming her membership, but provides the same response on 
appeal as was included in her response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). Notably, 
regarding the one association for which she submitted evidence of membership requirements, the 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, the Petitioner does not explain why attainment of 
a bachelor's degree in science or engineering, or equivalent professional experience, would be 
considered to be outstanding in a field where such qualifications represent the minimum requirement 
for employment. We therefore agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner identifies a paper she published in the journal Aviation in 2007, ___ 
________________________________ as an original 
contribution of major significance. She asserts, without referencing supporting evidence, that this 
paper is the "oldest" one on forecastin aviation transport demand usingl l However, 
reference letters from and I I state that she was among the first to 
use ___________ in this way. While we do not doubt the originality of this work, 
the evidence does not support the Petitioner's statement and is insufficient to show that it constituted 
an innovation which rose to the level of major significance. 
Related to this claim, the Petitioner also asserts that a particular keyword search in Google Scholar 
shows that her 2007 paper in Aviation "is one of the most cited papers on aviation demand forecasting 
of all time." We first note that the Petitioner did not submit documentation of the results of such a 
search. In addition, she did not show that these results would support her claim, especially considering 
that several of the expert letters submitted on her behalf reference older forecasting models that had 
been in existence for decades. 
3 
More importantly, the Petitioner does not indicate how the results of this search would show that her 
research was widely adopted or built upon by others in the field. While the number of citations to her 
2007 paper shows that there was some level of interest in her work, the record lacks sufficient context 
to show that that interest showed her work to be of major significance. The USCIS Policy Manual 
provides that "a goodly number" of citations "may be probative of the significance of the person's 
contributions to the field of endeavor,"2 but as noted above it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility. Here, the Petitioner provides a chart taken from an article posted on a website in 2015 
which shows the average number of citations to papers published in several broad fields, and notes 
that it shows that papers in the field of engineering average approximately 5 citations, meaning that 
citations to her 2007 paper are nearly IO times the average. However, since the number of citations 
in a field may change over time, it is not apparent that this data from an article posted in 2015 remained 
accurate 6 years later at the time of filing. In addition, the Petitioner has not explained how a 
comparison to the average citation rate in a broad field such as engineering provides an accurate gauge 
of the significance of this paper in the Petitioner's area of expertise. Finally, comparison of the 
citations to the Petitioner's paper with the average number of citations in the field does not show that 
it was amongst the most highly-cited papers in the field. 
In further support of the meaning of the number of citations to her 2007 paper in Aviation, and in 
response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted several reports. Two of these were from the 
Russian elibrar .ru website and show searches for articles published by authors affiliated with the 
where the Petitioner was employed as a researcher for 
several years, and here she received her Ph.D. These show that ofresearchers affiliated with I I she ranks in terms of overall citations in the field of transport, and that her 2007 paper 
ranks in the field of mechanical engineering from those authors affiliated with I She also 
submits a webpage from Aviation showing that her 2007 paper ranks in number of views of the 
papers published in that journal. These reports substantially limit the area of consideration to either a 
single journal or a single institution, and therefore the results do not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's contribution to the overall field. For example, the list showing her total citations ranks 
her out of only 16 other researchers. Further, this list showing total citations in the field of 
"transport" does not reflect the relative impact of the citations to her 2007 paper. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the reference letters she submitted show that she has made 
contributions of major significance. 3 She points out that some of the authors of these letters indicate 
that they have cited to her work in their own published papers in the field. of 
the University inl !Ukraine states that his group used the Petitioner's 2007 
paper as a foundation to develop a new forecasting method which combined her approach with 
another technique to achieve more accurate results. While he states that the Petitioner's work 
"benefitted not only our research but the industry as a whole," he does not provide details of how her 
work made an impact on the research of others beyond listing the nationalities of others who have also 
cited to the 2007 paper. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendix 
3 All of the reference letters in the record were reviewed and considered, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
4 
a also mentions another paper authored by the Petitioner in 2013, which he 
indicates was published in the Scientific Bulletin of Moscow State Technical University of Civil 
Aviation, and claims that it shows that she "was among the first researchers worldwide to adopt more 
sophisticated techniques." Despite his statement that "this work became a very important precursor 
of many similar research works that followed," there is no evidence in the record that this paper had 
any influence on the field or other researchers. Notably, the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile 
indicates that this paper had not been cited by other researchers at the time the petition was filed. 
Another letter was written by of the I University of Technology and 
Economics, who also indicates that the Petitioner was among the first to use an model to predict 
air traffic demand and "take the dynamics of air route networks into account." He states that her "2013 
work" introduced a newl I that "was poised to change the game," and that while it was useful 
in his research "it can do much more and has a great potential to improve air transportation indsuty 
workdliwe [sic]." I I goes on to provide a lengthy analysis of the forecast model used 
by the Federal Aviation Administration in the U.S., but the record lacks evidence that the Petitioner's 
model had fulfilled that potential or generated significant interest from the FAA or other agencies or 
amongst researchers in the field. 
of the I I University of Technology, who met the Petitioner at 
scientific conferences, writes that she was the first to consider air routel I development in her 
forecasts of aviation traffic, while leading aircraft producers based their forecasts on existing air routes. 
Butl ldoes not indicate that those producers and others in the field have now adopted 
the Petitioners approach or models, nor does the record include documentary evidence that they have 
done so. 
Our review of the evidence discussed above together with other evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion shows that while the Petitioner was among the first researchers to apply to the problem 
of modelling passenger air traffic demand, her models and techniques have not been shown to have 
widely influenced other researchers in her field. For example, both I and 
write in their reference letters that her model and method have been adopted as a standard at 
but the record does not include documentary evidence to support these statements. Further, the 
adoption of her work by her colleagues and the institution that employed her for nearly a decade does 
not show that her work has contributed to the overall field to the level of major significance. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they performed 
either a leading or critical role, and that the organizations that they played that role for have a 
distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational 
hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role is one in which the petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities.4 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
5 
The Petitioner focuses on appeal on her role at I I where she performed as a junior research 
assistant from 2008 to 2017. We note that despite the Director's specific request in his RFE, the 
Petitioner did not include evidence supporting the institution's distinguished reputation beyond 
statements the statements of its officials in their reference letters and a reference to the institution's 
website. Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence about I and its reputation 
on appeal, as noted above we will consider only the record of evidence before the Director in our 
rev1ew. 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the letter from I did not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner held a leading position atc=J.in terms of its overall organizational hierarchy, or that her 
position was critical or influential to On appeal, the Petitioner refers again to the report from 
the Russian eliblrary.edu website showing that in the area of transport, she ranks out of 16 
researchers from in number of citations to her work. Despite her claim that this is "substantial" 
evidence of her critical role, this evidence provides no connection between the citations to her work 
in this limited subject field and any contributions to the activities of las an institution. 
Turning tol I letter, she highlights the sections of his letter stating that she was one of 
the institution's "most prolific researchers at the time," which led to her receipt of a Certificate of 
Merit. However, I does not go beyond the language of this certificate to explain its 
significance or the significance of the work which led to the Petitioner's receipt of the certificate. In 
a later section of the letter, he states that the method developed by the Petitioner "was adopted as a 
standard and leading technique for predicting air route existence by I I ( and, therefore, by the 
Russian Department of Transportation.) It is indisputable that [the Petitioner] pioneered the 
application of to the problem of long-term forecasting of aviation traffic in .. " But he 
does not explain the impact of the Petitioner's work onl I overall activities. 
Another letter on which the Petitioner focuses here was written by another I I official,D 
___ He describes a different project on which he collaborated with the Petitioner, in which 
they decided to usel Ito predict the cost of I I airplane then under development. While 
he describes that as a novel us of at the time he does not indicate that this work was critical for In addition, addition, he also states, lik that her forecasting methods "were standardized 
bye=] and by the aviation de artment," but like I I does not go further into depth to 
explain the impact this had on overall operations. As such, this evidence does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role at as either leading or critical. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged receipt of salary statistics from the website rosstata.gov.ru 
and the Petitioner's income tax report from 2014, but noted that these were not accompanied by 
certificates of translation as required per 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
translations certificates, as well as the original documents in Russian. She asserts that her salary of 
898,644 RUB in 2014 is high when compared to the yearly average income for a Russian researcher, 
which she indicates was 378,972 RUB. We first note that it is not apparent from the evidence how 
the Petitioner arrived at this figure. The chart submitted with her response to the Director's RFE 
6 
clearly indicates that the average monthly salary for workers in "research and development" was 
56,188 RUB, which equates to an annual salary of 674,256 RUB. 
In addition, the statistics from Rosstat do not provide sufficient detail to form a useful basis for 
comparison to the Petitioner's salary. Evidence to show that a person's compensation is high relative 
to that of others in the field may include geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. 5 
Average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with 
different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The AAO notes that 
in Matter of Racine, 1995 WL 153319 at * 1, *4 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), the court stated: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is 
not a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of 
play; but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Grimson v. INS, 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
Although the present case arose within the jurisdiction of another federal judicial district and circuit, 
the court's reasoning indicates that USCIS' interpretation of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
is reasonable. In this case, the data from Rosstat appears to consider all workers engaged in research 
and development, regardless of education, experience, or the complexity of the duties they perform, 
and is therefore not an adequate basis of comparison to the Petitioner's position as a researcher holding 
an advanced degree. Further, the only figure provided is an average. Although the Petitioner's 
compensation in 2014 was certainly above the average figure provided, the data is not sufficient to 
establish that it can be considered to be high when compared to top earners in similar positions. 
Finally, this is a national figure, and therefore does not take into account the inevitable differences in 
compensation based upon location, especially in a large territory such as the Russian Federation. For 
all of these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she has commanded a high salary in relation 
to others in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
5 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
7 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22065039 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Advanced Degree, Exceptional Ability, National 
Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner, a social work coordinator, seeks second preference immigrant classification as an 
individual of exceptional ability in the sciences, arts or business, as well as a national interest waiver of 
the job offer requirement attached to this EB-2 classification. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2). 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner qualified 
for classification as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, but that he had not 
established a waiver of the required job offer, and thus of the labor certification, would be in the 
national interest. We agreed with the Director and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, as well as his 
subsequent motion. The matter is now before us again on combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or has established that our decision to dismiss the prior combined motion 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior 
decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the 
Applicant's claims on motion. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
Initially, we note that motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same 
reasons as are petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered 
evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); 
see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in 
bringing proceedings to a close as promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to 
develop and present their respective cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCTS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "if proceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on May 12, 2021. The Petitioner filed a combined motion on our 
appellate decision on August 11, 2021. As our prior decision explained, the Petitioner untimely filed his 
motion and provided no explanation or documentation to demonstrate that the fi I ing delay was reasonable 
or beyond his control. On present motion, the Petitioner states that Counsel's law firm had ongoing health 
challenges and that his prior motion's filing delay was reasonable. In support, the Petitioner provides 
three COVI D-19 test results for Counsel, dated June 13, 2021, July 6, 2021, and August 6, 2021, 
respectively. Although the Petitioner states that the filing delay was reasonable, he provides little detail 
concerning the law firm's ongoing health challenges. While we recognize that Counsel may have tested 
positive for COVID-19, this does not necessarily establish ongoing health challenges that would prevent 
a timely filing. For instance, the Petitioner has not argued that Counsel's law firm shut down its operations 
during this time period. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that illness incapacitated Counsel for the 
entire period from June 13, 2013 to August 6, 2021. Even if the evidence had demonstrated this, it would 
still not establish how the delay was reasonable, given that nearly a month elapsed between the issuance 
of our prior decision and Counsel's first positive test results. Furthermore, such evidence would not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner himself lacked control to timely file or mitigate circumstances. 
2 
Although the Petitioner continues to argue that he is eligible for a national interest waiver, he does not 
provide any new evidence on motion to support his eligibility. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening the proceedings. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The filing before us does not entitle the Petitioner to a reconsideration of the denial of the petition. 
Rather, a motion to reconsider pertains to our most recent decision. In other words, we examine any 
new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissal of the Petitioner's prior motion. 
Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier dismissal of his appeal, and the Petitioner 
cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
The Petitioner does not cite to or assert that we based our prior decision on an incorrect application of 
law or USCIS policy. Rather, he simply requests that we reexamine the record and reach a different 
conclusion. Because he has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law or policy, or that 
the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision, he has not established that 
he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, the motion must be dismissed. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645544 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigration Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria for extraordinary 
ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the 
Director for entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a human rights and political activist who indicates that he intends to continue his 
career as a political advisor and strategist for human rights organizations in the United States. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to eight criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two criteria, relating to published material about 
the Petitioner in major media and authorship of scholarly articles in the field. 1 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria. 2 
Upon review of the record, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the Director's decision did 
not adequately address all of the claimed evidentiary criteria or analyze the evidence provided. 3 An 
officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
1 The record supports that there has been extensive major media coverage about the Petitioner and his work in activism. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and 
(vii). Therefore, we consider these issues abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n. 2 (BIA 2012) 
(finding that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). 
3 While we note that the Director's request for evidence (RFE) included some discussion of the evidence provided for 
some of the criteria, an RFE is not a final decision, and where, as here, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and 
claims in response, the RFE is based only upon a portion of the complete record. 
2 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
A review of the Director's decision reflects that he did not adequately explain the reasons for denying 
the petition. For example, when addressing the criteria for receipt of a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prize and participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv), respectively, the Director simply stated that the evidence provided does not 
meet the plain language requirements of those criteria and provided no explanation or analysis of the 
evidence provided. 
We further find that the Director imposed requirements beyond those in the plain language of the 
regulations. When addressing the criteria for contributions of major significance in the field and 
leading or critical role4 under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), respectively, the Director incorrectly 
assessed the evidence using the standards for the final merits determination, stating that the 
documentation provided "fails to demonstrate that the beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a 
career of acclaimed work in the field" or that "the beneficiary is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the top of their field of endeavor." Under Kazarian, the issue of whether a Petitioner's 
achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or whether they are one of a 
small percentage at the top of their field is only assessed after it has been determined that they meet at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied 
to individual criteria. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Finally, we note that the Director found that the Petitioner meets the criterion regarding authorship of 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) due to his authorship of several op-eds and the fact 
that he was the focus of an interview published by the Journal of International Affairs. However, 
while the record establishes that the Petitioner's op-eds were published in major media, it is not 
apparent that these articles were scholarly in nature. Generally, scholarly articles are written by and 
for experts in a particular field of study, are peer-reviewed, and contain references to sources used in 
the articles. 5 The record in this case does not include documentation that the Petitioner's op-eds were 
peer-reviewed or were otherwise considered "scholarly." Similar concerns apply to the interview, 
despite the fact that it was published in a scholarly journal. The document titled "What We Publish" 
indicates that "Essays" published in the Journal of International Affairs undergo external peer review, 
whereas "Features" such as the interview with the Petitioner do not. Additionally, it is not apparent 
that the Petitioner's role as an interview subject equates to the regulatory requirement of"authorship." 
On remand, the Director should reexamine the evidence provided to determine whether it satisfies this 
criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Director shall issue a new decision that fully evaluates the 
evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (v), (vi), and (viii), 
including evidence provided on appeal. If, after review, the Director determines that the Petitioner 
satisfies at least three criteria, their decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
4 Tt is further noted that in assessing the critical role criterion, the Director mischaracterized] the political protest 
campaign the Petitioner founded, as "a project by the country's government." This conclusion is unsupported by the 
record. 
5 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitioners -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence. 
3 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of his field and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see 
also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination and 
any other issues. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22643167 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, anl I biologist, seeks to classify as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) by establishing that the Beneficiary made original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, or business-related contributions of major significance to the field. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is one of the few leading experts in the field of I biology 
and that he is well known for "his study of how the rapid I ofl I gene 
clusters enables al I aphid to colonize diverse plant species." The Petitioner 
indicates that he will enter the United States to continue his work in the field of I biology 
as a research associate with the I Institute, an entity affiliated with I University. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to three criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field in major trade publications or other 
major media. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), relating to judging the work of others in the same field and authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field. We agree that the Petitioner has met their burden with respect to these 
two criteria. Therefore, the only criteria at issue in this decision is whether the Petitioner established 
that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director provided insufficient analysis with respect to 
whether the Beneficiary met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), pointing to the fact that the 
decision largely reiterated the request for evidence (RFE). The Petitioner emphasizes scholarly 
articles published by the Beneficiary and stated that they are widely cited by other researchers in the 
field. The Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored submitted evidence demonstrating wide citation 
of his scholarly articles and improperly dismissed these citations as only "moderately valuable," 
providing little explanation to support this conclusion. Further, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director did not sufficiently consider several reference letters he submitted on the record from other 
professors working in the Beneficiary's field. The Petitioner asserts that the number of citations to 
the Beneficiary's work and the provided reference letters credibly establish that his research represents 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
2 
USCIS must determine whether the Petitioner has made original contributions in the field, and if so, 
whether the Petitioner's original contributions are of major significance to the field. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Contributions of major significance 
connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-136. The petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Upon review of the record, the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field. First, the Director's determination with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) was conclusory and did not fully address the submitted evidence. The Director only 
stated that the evidence provided was not "indicative of major significance" and that it "did not 
demonstrate how his contributions impacted the field as whole in a major a significant way," but did 
not sufficiently articulate the basis of these conclusions in light of the submitted evidence. The 
Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence reflecting the significant citation of the Beneficiary's 
published materials in the field and reference letters from professors in the field credibly discussing in 
the detail how the Beneficiary's research impacted and guided their work. However, the Director did 
not provide adequate analysis of this provided documentation. 
For instance, at the time the Petitioner filed the petition, the Google Scholar database showed hundreds 
of citations to his published original scholarly articles, with one specific article, emphasized by the 
Petitioner as an influential work relating to aphids, being cited 119 times. The U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Manual states that "a goodly number" of such citations "may be 
probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 1 As of the date of 
this adjudication, hundreds more citations have appeared related to the Petitioner's work. Although the 
new citations do not establish eligibility at the time of filing, they do reflect the field's ongoing reliance 
on the Petitioner research. In addition, as discussed, the Petitioner provided several credible reference 
letters from professors working in the field of I biology that discuss in detail how his work 
influenced and guided their research into the interaction of pests and their symbiont plants, specifically 
how I could be a target for insect pest control. The Petitioner has established that 
their original contributions are of major significance to the field. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Nevertheless, 
the record does not support approval of the petition, as establishing the third initial criterion does not 
suffice to establish eligibility for the classification. On remand, the Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
When considering the evidence submitted to show the Petitioner's acclaim and recognition in the field, 
the Director must consider whether or not the record corroborates assertions both from the Petitioner and 
in letters written specifically to support the petition. Further, the Petitioner's judging experience consists 
1 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
of peer review of scholarly articles for scientific journals in his field. However, peer review is a routine 
element of the process by which articles are selected for publication in scholarly journals. Simply 
participating in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. 3 Further, the fact that other 
researchers in the Petitioner's field are using his work in their own research satisfies the plain language 
requirements within the antecedent evidentiary prongs; however, the level that others are relying on his 
findings has not been properly demonstrated such that it could be concluded that this level of achievement 
rises to the level of this classification's overall requirements. The Director must keep such factors in 
mind when weighing the record and completing a final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20629011 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish, as required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one 
of that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a professional soccer player in Brazil and ____ 
I lfrom 1993 until 2009, when he transitioned to coaching. The Petitioner initially held coaching 
roles with la professional team in Trinidad and Tobago, and has coached 
youth soccer teams since 2015. At the time of filing in August 2020, he was employed as the head 
soccer coach for the Under 14 (U14) and Under 12 (U12) teams for I in I I California. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet up to seven of the 
ten criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met four of the evidentiary criteria and therefore 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner submitted evidence of published material about him and relating to his work as an 
athlete and coach; evidence that he had participated as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
evidence that he had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, and evidence that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. See 8 
C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii) and (ix). We will not disturb the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
The Director further determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he could meet 
three additional criteria, including lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 
2 
204.5(h)(3)(i), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), 1 and original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Nevertheless, because the Director determined that the Petitioner met at least three of the regulatory 
criteria, he proceeded to a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Director, noting a lack of recent evidence in the record, determined that the Petitioner had attained 
significant successes and achievements as a soccer player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago resulting 
in national acclaim in the past, but did not demonstrate that he had sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is among the small percentage of soccer coaches at the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to raise the issue of sustained acclaim in 
the request for evidence (RFE) issued prior to the denial of the petition and therefore improperly based 
the denial on a lack of such evidence. We observe that the RFE included the following statement: 
"Any evidence submitted in response to this request should also articulate how the record establishes 
that the beneficiary possesses the required high level of expertise for the El 1 immigration 
classification." The Director emphasized that establishing this "high level of expertise" requires 
evidence that the Petitioner possesses sustained national or international acclaim, noting that acclaim 
must be maintained and that a petitioner "may have achieved extraordinary ability in the past but then 
failed to maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter." Therefore, we find that the RFE informed 
the Petitioner that he must not only submit evidence that satisfies at least three of the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), but also demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
that places him among the small percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director overlooked evidence relating to his most recent 
achievements as a coach and submits supplemental evidence in support of the appeal, including 
evidence that post-dates the filing of the petition. While we will address this newly submitted 
evidence, we emphasize that the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Upon review, and for the reasons discussed below, we agree 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this highly 
restrictive classification. 
1 While the Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), he did not pursue that 
claim in his response to the Director's request for evidence. 
3 
As noted, the Petitioner is a soccer coach who began his career as a rofessional soccer player in 
Brazil. According to the Petitioner's resume, he la ed for from 1993 to 1997 
and for three different Brazilian teams andl I I Jin 1998 and 1999. He indicates that his play ____ "was pivotal in bringing 
thel I championship to the I in 1995." The record reflects that the Petitioner left 
Brazil in 2000 after being recruited by the Trinidad and Tobago Football Association (TTF A) and 
I l which competes in the Trinidad and Tobago 
Professional League (TT Pro League). The Petitioner played with I I from 2000 to 
2006 and 2007 to 2009, during which time he received several team-issued awards includingl I I (2000, 2001),I (2003), andl 1(2005). In 2013, 
he was one of several recipients of thel I "Lifetime Achievement Award" for his 
contributions to the team as a player and member of the coaching staff. In 12005, 
he played in six international matches with the Trinidad and Tobago _______ 
According to a letter from CEO of I I the Petitioner 
immediately transitioned to coaching at the end of his playing career. Specificallyj I states 
that the Petitioner was an assistant coach of the team from 2009 until team from 
2015, while also functioning as the head coach for the 
this same period. 2 From 2015 to 2017, the Petitioner served as 
Football Academ in Trinidad and Tobago, before moving to to to work for _ 
as Head Soccer Coach for its Ul4 and U12 teams in 2018. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that the ________ team was particularly successful during his tenure as an 
assistant coach in 2013 and 2014 when they were TT Pro I I andl I 
Winners. His training and credentials as a coach include a U.S. Soccer Federation E License, a 
National Soccer Coaches Association of America Level 1 Diploma, a two-week coaching internship 
at La Masia Academy in Spain, and completion of a Youth Coaching Training Course. The Petitioner 
states that he has coached four players who went on to play for the ________ National 
Team, two of whom have also played for U.S. Major League Soccer teams. 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner established that he received media coverage in Trinidad and 
Tobago during his playing and coaching career there, that he has commanded a high salary, that he 
has had responsibility for judging the work of others in the field, and that he served in a leading or 
critical role forl ]which enjoys a distinguished reputation in the sport in Trinidad and 
Tobago. At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). Here, the record does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective 
of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published materials, the Petitioner submitted more than 30 articles published by Trinidad 
and Tobago publications, including national newspapers Trinidad Guardian, Newsday, and Trinidad 
2 While the record documents the Petitioner's coaching roles withl I we note that the Petitioner indicates 
in his resume and in his own personal statement in support of the petition that he served in these coaching roles withO I from 2013 to 2015 (rather than from 2009 to 2013), and that his "first coaching assignment" was as a Head 
Soccer Coach for "Under I I-Under 16" with I a public secondary school in Trinidad and Tobago, from 
2012 to 2013. 
4 
Express. Many of the submitted articles are dated between 2004 and I I 2005 and 
are about the Petitioner's efforts to obtain to play on its 
national team in qualifying matches for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. The evidence from this period 
reflects significant media interest in the Petitioner, including feature articles lauding his skills as a 
player, frequent coverage of his training with the national team, and articles about the matches he 
ultimately played with the team in international competition. For example, al I 2004, 
article published by Express states that the Petitioner "has helped! to twol I and and has been one of the most in in the [TT Pro League] over the last five 
years." This evidence indicates that he enjoyed national acclaim as an athlete at the time and was 
regarded as a key player forl I which is further evidenced by the team awards he 
received for his performance between 2000 and 2005. In addition, articles published by the Trinidad 
Guardian and the website of the TT Pro Lea ue mention that the Petitioner was among "former 
top performers and captains" of who were selected to receive "Lifetime 
Achievement Awards" from at the team'sl I awards ceremony. 
The Petitioner also submitted seven articles relating to his career as a coach, but unlike the articles 
discussed above, he was not specifically featured in any of these materials. A Newsday article from 
I 2009 titled mentions the Petitioner's transition to 
coaching in passing, noting that he would not be at the start of the season but would "join the 
technical staff as an assistant coach" for th team. A 2009 Guardian 
article titled also mentions the Petitioner as one of two 
new assistant coaches of , bbut the article is a feature story about another member of 
the team's coachin staff. The Petitioner also submitted two 2012 articles from Daily Express which 
cover the and briefly mention the 
Petitioner's role as head coach of the _____ team. Further, the Petitioner submitted three 
articles from 2014 which mention his role as coach of the team. 
Two of the articles are about the results of this team's matches and sim 1 identif the Petitioner as 
the team's coach, while the remaining 2014 article, titled is about 
______ and national team playerl The article mentions tha _ during a 
recent break in playing due to medical issues, served as assistant coach to the Petitioner with the club's I jteam. 
While the record reflects some ongoing media coverage of the Petitioner's career in Trinidad and 
Tobago following his transition to coaching in 2009, the number of articles and the nature of the 
coverage does not reflect the level of acclaim he enjoyed during the height of his career as an athlete 
playing for a professional team and in international competition. Regardless, even if we concluded 
that the Petitioner achieved national acclaim as both a player and a coach in Trinidad and Tobago 
based on the submitted published materials, the Director correctly observed that the record contained 
no articles dated after September 2014, which was nearly six years prior to the filing of the petition. 
Therefore, the published materials evidence does not support a determination the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained national acclaim as a soccer coach that places him among "that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that, notwithstanding the lack ofrecent media coverage of his career, 
he submitted other, more recent evidence which establishes his sustained acclaim as a coach that the 
Director failed to consider. He emphasizes that the evidence must be considered in its totality in order 
5 
to determine whether he has the sustained acclaim required under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
Specifically, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not give proper weight to evidence of his 
recent judging activities in the final merits determination. 
In addressing the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge, the Director observed that he 
relied on letters of recommendation detailing his roles and responsibilities as a coach and assistant 
coach. He specifically referenced a letter froml I CEO of _____ who 
stated that the Petitioner had input on the decision-making process regarding coaching assignments 
for the club' sl I teams. The Director determined that while the 
Petitioner had judged the work of others, his judging activities "took place as part of his job 
responsibilities" and were performed "with the organization for which he previously played." The 
Director concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner was specifically invited to serve 
as a judge of others based on his acclaim as a coach or that his judging activities garnered him national 
or international acclaim or recognition. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his 
experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. Therefore, the 
Director did not err by considering the nature of the Petitioner's judging activities and noting that he 
performed internal judging activities as part of his job responsibilities for his employer. 3 However, 
we agree with the Petitioner that the submitted evidence demonstrates that he participated as a judge 
for organizations other than and not solely as part of his coaching responsibilities 
for this club. 
A letter fro ml lof TTF A confirms that the Petitioner was invited by 
"to judge the performances of the players seeking to make the selection for the Team of 
Trinidad & Tobago that would participate in the FIF A lw orld Cup." ___ indicates 
that these activities took place in Trinidad in 2019, 2019, where the Petitioner designed drills for the 
40 prospective players and assisted in the selection of 26 players to participate in a two-year World 
Cup training program. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional letter froml I head coach and technical 
director lwho confirms that the TTF A invited the Petitioner to participate in the I 
I I selection activities described byl I He also indicates that, even after the 
Petitioner left the staff ofl I he was invited by the team's board of directors to judge 
the players' performance (in conjunction with the technical staff) to select the best starting team for 
TT Pro League competition in the 2016 to 2018 seasons. 
Therefore, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he was invited to participate in judging the 
work of others and did not solely perform these duties in the context of his responsibilities as a coach 
for his employer. We also acknowledge that he participated in these activities as recently as 2019. 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner maintains a relationship with thel coaching 
staff, that he has had one invitation from TTF A to participate in team selection, and that these 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.4(B)(2) (stating that as part of the final merits determination, the quality of the evidence 
should also be considered, such as whether a petitioner's judging responsibilities were internal). 
6 
organizations value his input as a judge of athletic and coaching abilities. However, the Petitioner did 
not establish how the recent judging activities documented in the record place him among the small 
percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others at the top of the field or demonstrate how his 
judging activities have either resulted from or contributed to his sustained national or international 
acclaim. Further, the regulations require that the Petitioner provide "extensive documentation" to 
show that his achievements have been recognized in the field. The Director found that the Petitioner 
had little or no evidence of such recognition in the five years preceding the filing of the petition; his 
submission of more recent evidence of his participation in judging activities does not automatically 
meet this high standard or demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim as a 
coach. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that he served in a leading or critical role as a 
player and coach with the ______ organization, and that the team enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. The Director also concluded that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he had 
commanded a high salary in relation to others as a player with this organization (based on his 2006 
contract) and as a coach, from 2013 to 2015. However, the Director emphasized that the Petitioner's 
tenure with I ended in 2015 and the record did not establish that he had commanded 
a high salary or held leading or critical roles with another organization that has a distinguished 
reputation since that time. As such, the Director concluded that the record lacked recent evidence that 
would demonstrate the Petitioner's national acclaim had been sustained. 
On a eal the Petitioner maintains that he served in a leading or critical role for both 
from 2018 until 2020, and that he has served in a leading or critical role for 
since February 2021. He also submits evidence intended to establish that he currently earns a 
high salary as a head coach and director of I ]which is described by its Executive Director 
"one of the premier clubs in thel with over 14 teams and 200 student athletes. 
The evidence submitted on appeal includes a letter fromDPresidentl land additional 
information about from various websites. We do not doubt that the Petitioner had a leading or 
critical role as a head coach with this organization. However, even ifwe determined that enjoys 
a distinguished reputation among youth soccer clubs inl I California where it operates, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field 
based on his coaching role with a regional youth soccer club. The same is true with respect to the 
evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's leading or critical role withl , a a youth 
soccer club in California that he joined six months after the filing of this petition. 4 It is evident that 
these two U.S. organizations value the Petitioner's years of expertise in the sport and regard him as a 
highly effective coach who has positively impacted both individual and team performance for their 
respective clubs. However, the record does not demonstrate that he has achieved or sustained a level 
of acclaim in these roles that is comparable to the level of national acclaim he achieved during his 
time as a player and coach withl I or a level of acclaim that places him at the top of 
the field among soccer coaches. 
4 As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied 
from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
The record is similarly lacking evidence that the Petitioner commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for his services as a soccer coach between his departure from the I coaching staff in 2015 and the filing of this petition in 2020. On appeal, the Petitioner 
has supplemented the record with evidence intended to establish that he has commanded a high salary 
withl !compared to other youth soccer coaches in the United States. As noted, the 
Petitioner did not join this organization until six months after he filed this petition. Further, while his 
salary with this club (which is slightly above the 90th percentile nationwide according to the one 
source submitted) may demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the field, he 
has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
Therefore, the record supports the Director's conclusion that any national acclaim the Petitioner 
achieved as a member of the coaching staff of a professional team in Trinidad and Tobago has not 
been sustained since he left the team and moved on to youth coaching roles in the five years preceding 
the filing of the petition. 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claims that he has made contributions to coaching through 
the development and implementation of training methods and through the success of individual players 
he has coached. A letter from I I assistant coach ofthel I team of Trinidad 
and Tobago, states that the Petitioner has developed training drills designed to develop players' agility 
and coordination. He states that the Petitioner's "methodology and style of coaching is revolutionary" 
and continues to be used in coaching Trinidad and Tobago's national team. In his own statement, the 
Petitioner referenced his publication I I and indicated that it is a manual "used in 
every practice through the [Trinidad & Tobago Professional] league." However, he concedes that 
"there are no records of it" being incorporated by the league, noting that "most likely, it has been 
photocopied and passed along to coaches and teams." The record contains a copy of a seven-page 
document illustrating a soccer I and bearing the seal of thel I I I Even if we concluded that the Petitioner developed a training drill or methodology that is in 
widespread use in Trinidad and Tobago, he states that he has not been widely acknowledged for such 
contribution and the record does not support a determination that this largely uncredited contribution 
has garnered him national or international acclaim or recognition in the field of soccer coaching. 
Other testimonial evidence in the record identifies specific players who were coached by the Petitioner 
during their careers and who have gone on to play on collegiate, professional or national teams. While 
such evidence supports a determination that the Petitioner is a talented and successful coach, there is 
insufficient objective evidence to establish whether or how the players' achievements contributed to 
the Petitioner's own acclaim and recognition in the field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or those who achieved, 
but did not maintain, the required national or international acclaim. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was an acclaimed professional 
soccer player with a top team in Trinidad and Tobago and possessed the skills to make the successful 
transition to coaching at a high level with his former team's organization. However, the record does 
8 
not establish that any national acclaim he achieved as a player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago has 
been sustained since he leftl in 2015 to pursue other coaching opportunities with 
youth soccer organizations. He did not demonstrate through "extensive documentation" that his work 
in subsequent years has brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a national or international level, 
such that we could conclude that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. As 
such, the record does not indicate he currently has a degree of recognition for his achievements 
consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 pet1t10n, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at 
least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Eligibility as an 0-1 nonimmigrant does not 
automatically establish eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability classification, as each petition is 
separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory 
and regulatory provisions. 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic 
Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23551665 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records indicate that a different Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for an Alien Worker, filed by the Petitioner was approved after the instant appeal. 
USCIS records further show that a Form 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust 
Status, was approved subsequent to the filing of this appeal and that the Petitioner was issued a 
Permanent Resident Card on February 8, 2022. As the Petitioner is presently a permanent resident, 
further pursuit of this matter is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20211842 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tax accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from the Director's 
decision. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new.facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
From 198 7 to 19 8 9, the Petitioner worked as an international tax associate atl I in I I California. Since 1989, the Petitioner has worked for an affiliate of I I China, where he is now vice chair and international tax 
partner. The Petitioner filed the petition in May 2019. Since that time, he has periodically entered the 
United States as either an F-1 nonimmigrant student or a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor, but he continues 
to reside primarily inl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
2 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to published materials about him, 
authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. In our appellate decision, we concluded 
that the Petitioner had met the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles, leading or critical 
roles, and high remuneration. 
Because we determined that the Petitioner had submitted the required initial evidence, we proceeded 
to a final merits determination to evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to detem1ine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits new evidence by which he seeks to augment the 
evidence he had previously submitted in order to satisfy the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For the reasons explained below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown proper cause to reopen 
the proceeding. 
In our dismissal decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's high-ranking position atl I but 
concluded that the Petitioner's evidence is "not sufficient to demonstrate how this work has elevated his 
status within the broader field of business, or his specialization in taxation." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits letters from two retired! I executives. One of these 
individuals, a former international tax partner, briefly worked directly with the Petitioner, and afte1ward 
consulted him for advice regarding I tax matters." This individual asserts that the Petitioner 
reached "the highest levels of management and responsibility withinl I but provides few 
details and does not establish that the Petitioner earned recognition outsidd I 
former chief executive officer (CEO) states that by 2010 the Petitioner "was clearly 
established as premier expe1i on all tax matters involved in U.S.-China business 
transactions. In addition, he was recognized broadly as one of the best international tax practitioners 
globally, as evidenced by his twice being named a 'Leading Individual in Taxation' by the International 
Tax Review." Noting that the Petitioner wrote articles and sat for "interviews with a wide variety of 
media," the former CEO also asserted that these "activities were by invitation based on recognition of his 
expertise by the industry ... and those invited must have arrived at the summit of their profession." 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
3 
The record does not support the claim that International Tax Review (ITR) named the Petitioner as a 
"Leading Individual in Taxation." In our prior decision, we stated: "the evidence showing that the 
Petitioner was named as one of several tax experts in in International Tax Review's 'World 
Tax Rankings' in 2009 does not set him apart from others so named, or from those taxation experts who 
work in other parts of the w011d." 
On motion, the Petitioner does not identify any published material fromITR in the record that names the 
Petitioner as a "Leading Individual in Taxation." An email messa e from ITR's commercial editor 
indicates that the Petitioner "was profiled as part of leadership profile in 
International Tax Review's World Tax rankings fo ___ in 2009." Those rankings pertained to 
firms rather than individuals. The Petitioner's initial submission included a four-pageprintoutfrom those 
rankings, which identifier-7as one of fivel I tax firms in I Within that printout, 
a two-paragraph profile of names three company officials and states that the Petitioner is one of 
two officials who "are regularly involved in discussions with government bodies for the development and 
interpretation of new rules and regulations." The document does not refer to the Petitioner as a "Leading 
Individual in Taxation" or present itself as a ranking of such individuals. 2 
The undocumented claim about ITR' s World Tax rankings influences our conclusions about the overall 
reliability of the newly submitted letter. Where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is 
in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter 
of Caron Int'!, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). We must view in this light of the former 
CEO's uncorroborated assertions about the significance of the Petitioner's interviews and authorship of 
articles. The record does not contain statements from the media outlets that interviewed the Petitioner, or 
the publishers of outlets that carried his articles, indicating selection of authors or interviewees based on 
an individual's high ranking in their field. 
The record likewise lacks support for the Petitioner's assertion on motion that his "recognition in the field 
is further validated by the fact that he was invited to serve as a member of the Taxation Committee of I I General Chamber of Commerce"! l The evidence of the Petitioner's committee 
service consists of a previously submitted letter from a deputy CEO of the I I who confinned that 
the Petitioner was a "member of good standing with the Committee" from 2004 to 2010. The Petitioner 
did not submit evidence to show the requirements for committee membership or otherwise provide details 
as to how the Petitioner joined the committee and the significance of that membership. The letter points 
to the Petitioner's local prominence in the I financial community, without establishing wider 
recognition at the national or international level that the statute and regulations demand. 
The Petitioner submits copies of three "recent articles in which the Petitioner was interviewed and quoted 
regarding different important business issues." The Petitioner asserts that these articles illustrate "his own 
status as a tax expert in the business field." 
2 The Petitioner had originally claimed that this brief mention in ITR's World Tax rankings constitutes "an award for 
excellence in the field of taxation." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown his receipt of any award, 
and the Petitioner did not pursue the claim on appeal. 
4 
A 2015 article from Forbes mentions the Petitioner once, but there is no indication that Forbes 
interviewed him directly. Instead, the article refers to a quotation that had already appeared in another 
publication, stating that the Petitioner "told the South China Morning Post that tax authorities will 
especially be looking at outbound service payments." A 2020 article from Asian Investor includes 
comments from the Petitioner concerning the possible impact on U.S. investors of a newlypassed security 
law. Neither of these articles focuses on the Petitioner. We note that the Asian Investor article was 
published after the petition's filing date in 2019 and therefore could not establish eligibility as of the filing 
date required by 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
A 2018 article in Diplomat features an interview with the Petitioner, discussing infrastructure investment. 
The article provides the Petitioner's title and indicates that lis one of the world'sl I 
accounting fim1s," but does not refer to the Petitioner as a leading or acclaimed figure in his field or state 
that he was selected for the interview based on acclaim or recognition. 
The three newly submitted articles identify the Petitioner as a source of information and opinions in his 
area of expertise, but the Petitioner has not shown that these articles demonstrate national or international 
acclaim or recognition at the top of his field. 
Discussed separately from the above articles, the Petitioner submits two articles relating to I I 
provision oflegal services in I and elsewhere in China. One of the articles quotes the Petitioner 
at some length in his capacity as the senior international advisor for the firm in China; the other article 
mentions him more briefly regarding the establishment of the firm inl I 
The Petitioner also submits a press release from I own website, indicating that the Petitioner 
"was invited to speak on a private wealth panel" at a government-organized event in May 2021. The 
Petitioner does not establish that this event attracted media attention outside! lown promotional 
materials. Also, the event occurred two yearsafterthepetition'sMay 2019filingdate and therefore could 
not establish eligibility as of the filing date, even if the Petitioner had submitted evidence of the 
significance of the event. This invitation is one of several pieces of evidence that deals with the 
Petitioner's high-ranking position atl I This high rank satisfies the threshold criterion at 
8 C.F .R. § 2 04 .5(h X3)(viii), as a leading role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation. But 
the Petitioner has not shown that this high rank has translated to individual recognition and acclaim for 
himself.3 
In addition to articles mentioning the Petitioner, the record also contains articles written by the Petitioner. 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we acknowledged the Petitioner's authorship of 
scholarly articles, but determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the articles "set him apart from 
his co-authors and others" in the field who also publish scholarly articles. We also observed that the 
Petitioner had not established the "influence or reach" of the publications that carried the articles. We 
concluded, as a result, that "the Petitioner's published work does not rise to [the] level" of "extensive 
documentation ofrecognition in [his] field." 
3 The distinction is of particular significance because the Petitioner does not intend to work directly forl I in the 
United States. Rather, he stated that he intends "to set up a boutique tax consulting firm" for certain clients with business 
interests in the United States and China, and "may continue to be associated with I lin a consulting relationship." 
5 
On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence to establish that some of the publications that have carried his 
articles have significant circulation and readership. These materials, however, do not address the larger 
question how the articles "set [the Petitioner] apart from his co-authors and others" who have published 
such articles in the field. 
We note that circulation figures factor into initial consideration of scholarly articles as a threshold criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. In our prior decision, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had satisfied that criterion. 
But evidence that satisfies the initial threshold criteria does not necessarily show sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner has not shown that the publishers invited him to write articles based 
on such acclaim, or that he derived acclaim from the reception of the articles upon their publication. 
The Petitioner addresses another threshold criterion that we had already granted, concerning high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner submits a 
statement fro land background evidence indicating that he earned a high salary from2013 
to 2020, whereas his earlier evidence covered a shorter span from 2018 to 2019. As with the circulation 
figures above, the new evidence is relevant to the proceeding, but it does not suffice to shift the overall 
calculus of the final merits determination in the Petitioner's favor and demonstrate sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner's new evidence submitted does not consistently show a level of 
recognition outside of I that reaches the level of sustained national and international acclaim. 
Because the newly submitted evidence does not establish eligibility, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that the prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, and was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In 
the present motion, the Petitioner identifies only one claimed error. 
In our dismissal notice, we noted the Petitioner's "long-time service with the Young Men's Christian 
Association of in several roles, most recently as its Chairman of the Board and 
President," but we observed that "the Petitioner does not suggest or establish that this work has brought 
him acclaim in the international tax community, or that any recognition for this work extends beyond the 
I On motion, the Petitioner states that "requiring Petitioner's leading role to extend beyond 
thel I is overreach, and thus, and incorrect application oflaw." The Petitioner states that the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) "only requires evidence that Petitioner has performed a leading 
role in an organization with a distinguished reputation, and nothing more. It is not an oversight that 'in 
the field' is not written into this criterion when all 9 other criteria contain a 'field' limitation." The 
Petitioner therefore asserts that we "impose[d an] additional evidentiary requirement" that the leading 
role relate to the Petitioner's field. 
We emphasize that, in the denial notice, the Director cited the Petitioner's position atl I and 
granted that the Petitioner had met the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and we agreed in our 
dismissal notice. Therefore, we imposed no additional evidentiary requirement within the context of that 
regulatory criterion. 
6 
But the final merits determination is not an aggregation of the threshold regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Rather, as explained above, a final merits determination rests on consideration of the 
record as a whole. In the context of a final merits determination, we can consider factors outside the 
confines of the ten threshold criteria. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1151, which recognizes that issues that 
"are not relevant to the antecedent procedural question" of the threshold criteria "might be relevant to the 
final merits determination of whether a petitioner is at the very top of his or her field of endeavor." When 
considering whether the Petitioner is at the very top of his field of endeavor, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), we cannot properly detemnne the weight to attribute to the Petitioner's activities outside 
that field when the Petitioner has not established their relevance. 
In our dismissal notice, we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his leadingroleat._l ___ 
"has brought him acclaim in the international tax community." The Petitioner, on motion, has not 
overcome or even disputed this conclusion. The burden is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility for the 
benefit he seeks, and to establish the relevance of the evidence submitted. The Petitioner has not 
explained how a leadership position atl I relates to sustained national or international acclaim 
in the field of tax accounting. 
The Petitioner has not identified any error oflaw or policy in our appellate decision, or established that 
the appellate decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, th emotion 
does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and we must dismiss the motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23101218 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior life science product consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she qualifies 
for the requested classification . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed by a "Fortune 500" corporation as a senior life science product consultant. 
She asserts that she has "created two original solutions of major significance" to the life sciences 
industry and intends to continue her work in the industry by focusing on "the development of 
innovative solutions to support pharmaceutical drug and medical device[] development." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially submitted evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies two of the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to membership in associations, original contributions of major significance 
to her field, and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished 
reputations. The Petitioner has not pursued her initial stance that she meets the criterion relating to 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), nor does she contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address it in our decision. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
As it relates to her roles, the Petitioner asserts that she has performed in both a leading and a critical 
role for her employer and thus meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). She points to letters 
from her employer and its clients, such as one provided by I a client partner director for 
her employer, who describes in detail the nature of her role as a senior life sciences product consultant, 
noting that she "leads the entire product life cycle from ideation, screening, product definition, 
research, prototyping, design and development. ... strategy, roadmap, go-to-market strategy, 
commercialization, and roll out." Other writers, such as I I a principal architect and 
senior engagement partner for her employer, andl I the director of R&D information 
research for one of her employer's clients, similarly describe her leading role in her employer's product 
design, development, and implementation efforts. The Petitioner also provided copies of product 
design documentation and licensing contracts which list her as "product owner" for the products being 
designed, developed and licensed to her employer's clients. In addition, she submitted evidence about 
her employer, including a recent report from an industry research group (E-), which analyzed the 
performance of 23 digital service providers in the life sciences industry using "a framework that 
provides an objective, data-driven, and comparative assessment of such providers," which reflects that 
her employer is considered by E-to be an industry leader in providing such services. 
Considering the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the plain language 
evidentiary requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) to show that she has performed 
in a leading or a critical role for her employer, and that that her employer has a distinguished reputation 
within her industry. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirement for the requested 
classification. We therefore need not consider whether she also meets additional criteria. Rather, the 
totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the Director in his decision or newly 
submitted on appeal, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether it shows that 
the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in her field of endeavor and is one of the 
small percentage individuals at the top of that field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 Since the Director's decision did not 
include such a determination, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the record and 
determine whether the Petitioner established her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability at 
the time of filing of the petition. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of 
this case on remand. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090673 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film and media editor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record does not establish that he has 
national or international acclaim and is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director did not conduct a 
proper final merits determination. 
We review the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement, that 
is a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a film and media editor. Because the Petitioner has not established that he received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field; 
• (vii) Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii) Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria: lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, display at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
However, upon review of the record in its totality, we conclude that the record does not establish that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of: (1) 2005 I Latin America Awards 
presented to (2 2005 Latin America A wards 
presented to (3) 2006 Latin America Awards 
lnresented to and 4 20061 I Latin America Awards 
presented to The Petitioner is listed as the editor 
on the awards. The Petitioner also submitted various articles about 1,1 I awards, a keynote 
speaker for the organization's annual conference in 2007, and some of the past winners of 
awards from the !website and other various websites. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
two articles from the Businesswire.com website, which state that is the largest member 
association for the global entertainment marketing community and is a global, non-profit association 
dedicated to advancing the role and effectiveness of promotion, marketing, and broadcast design 
professionals in the electronic media. These articles discuss I I awards generally and its 
recipients but do not provide any information regarding specific categories that the Petitioner was 
awarded in or establish that the Petitioner was recognized for excellence in the field as a film and 
media editor. The record does not contain sufficient evidence about I I awards, such as different 
categories for the awards, an overview of the different levels of awards, the selection criteria used to 
grant the awards, national or international significance of the specific awards in the field, the number 
of awardees, or candidates for the awards. As such, we are unable to determine the purpose of the 
awards. For example, the record does explain what I I is and does not address the 
significance of the laward to establish that the Petitioner was recognized for excellence 
in his field as a film and media editor and considered as one of the top film and media editors in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence ofl I Festivals "2006 Bronze Award" presented to 
where the Petitioner is listed as the editor. The Petitioner 
submitted various articles about some of the past winners of Festivals television and film 
awards, and international advertising awards from the Festivals website and other various 
websites. The I Festivals website states tha Festivals television and film awards 
honor content in all lengths and forms from over 50 countries and embrace all aspects of the television 
and film industries. However, the record does not provide any information regarding the specific 
category that the Petitioner was awarded in or establish that the Petitioner was recognized for 
excellence in his field as a film and media editor and considered as one of the top film and media 
editors in the field. The record does not contain sufficient evidence about I Festivals awards, 
such as different categories for the awards, an overview of the different levels of awards, the selection 
criteria used to grant the awards, national or international significance of the specific awards in the 
field, the number of awardees, or candidates for the awards. 
While the Petitioner provided evidence of 2005 and 2006 I Latin America Awards and 2006 I !Festivals Bronze Award, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient documentary evidence to 
establish that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of a prize or award is insufficient to meet the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) without documentary evidence reflecting that 
3 
the prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet the judging criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed that he served as a judge of the work of filmmakers in the I I 
Festival. The Petitioner submitted two letters from the Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the I I which indicate that the Petitioner was invited to participate 
as a judge at an event to be held in I I 2021. The letters also states that thel I I I is an online education platform on which the students can access learning materials about 
film making. The Petitioner filed the instant visa petition in October 2021 -two months prior to 
the scheduled event. In a notice of intent to deny, the Director requested for evidence of the actual 
participation of the Petitioner as a judge at the claimed event. In response to the notice, the 
Petitioner did not provide the requested evidence or other evidence to supplement the record. 
There is no documentary evidence from the or other sufficient evidence 
indicating that the Petitioner actually participated in judging at the event at the time of filing his 
visa petition. Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Accordingly, the Petitioner does 
not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. The plain language 
of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) requires "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's work 
in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases." A review of the record of proceeding reflects that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence to establish that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claimed that he has performed in a leading and critical role forl a 
production company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted four letters from the Executive Producer 
and a founding partner ofl The letters state that the Petitioner worked forl lin 
4 
the post-production audiovisual department from March 2004 to June 2015; he fulfilled all his duties 
in a serious and responsible manner; he was the most trustworthy service provider; and he contributed 
to the company to achieve the highest standard of quality in audiovisual production. However, the 
letters do not describe how the Petitioner's position fits within the overall hierarchy of I 
Without an organizational chart or other evidence documenting how the Petitioner fits within the 
general hierarchy of I I the Petitioner cannot establish that he has performed in a leading 
role. With regard to critical roles, the Petitioner must establish how he contributed tol I 
outcome or activities. The letters fall short of specifying how the Petitioner contributed tol I 
in a way that is significant to its outcome or activities. Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient independent, objective evidence distinguishing! I from other highly regarded 
production companies so as to establish that it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he has performed in a leading and critical role for I 
a production company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Director of 
which states that the Director worked with the Petitioner, resulting in a high-
quality work and that the Director's video clip by lwas awarded Best Pop 
Video in thel Film Festival in 2014 and Teen Choice Award in the I 
Music and Video Festival in 2014. However, the letter does not describe how the Petitioner's position 
fits within the overall hierarchy of I to establish that he has performed in a leading 
role. The letter also does not specify how the Petitioner contributed to I I in a way 
that is significant to its outcome or activities. In addition, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient 
independent, objective evidence demonstrating thatl has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he has performed in a critical role forl a production 
company, as an editor. The Petitioner submitted a letter from a filmmaker and a co-founder of I I I which states that the co-founder has known the Petitioner for over 10 years as a 
professional post-producer and that the Petitioner has shown outstanding skills and social ethics. The 
letter also states that thanks to the Petitioner's professional and personal aptitudes, 
has received awards and recognition. For example, the letter states tha film titled 
I ]won Best Thriller Film Award in ilm in 2021 and that its film 
titled I won Best Dark Corned Award in 1Film Festival in 2018. We 
acknowledge that films produced b have received awards. However, the letter 
does not specify how the Petitioner contributed tol in a way that is significant to the 
outcome of the organization. The letter does not explain how the Petitioner's role as a film editor was 
critical to the overall outcome ofl I activities. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not 
submit sufficient independent, objective evidence that distinguishes! I from other 
highly regarded production companies. Every production company that boasts its accomplishments 
does not necessary demonstrate a distinguished reputation. 
Without sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets the plain language of this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
5 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Forms 1-140 are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. 
US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 
1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the 
USCIS service centers (the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition) is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, *1, *3 (E.D. La.), aff'd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 
51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have 
reviewed the record in its totality and conclude that the Petitioner has not established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner 
appears to be a talented editor in the production of short films and marketing entertainment videos. 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work as an editor in the film and 
media industry is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that he has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23271180 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as a teacher, coach, and speaker of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has more than two decades' ex erience racticing I I a system of 
movement and meditatio The Petitioner learned the I I 
discipline by studying with masters at China's and subsequently 
introduced it to Mexico through the formation of his instructional facility and retreat.I I 
The Petitioner has submitted documentation demonstrating his intention to continue educating others 
in the field ofl I and to participate in speaking engagements in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must establish he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating 
to six criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor, 
• (iii) Published material about the individual, 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance, 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
• (viii) Performance of leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations, and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the record did not contain evidence sufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner met any of the above-listed criteria necessary for qualification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in a specific field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he provided evidence 
sufficient to satisfy five criteria addressed in the Director's final decision. As more fully discussed 
below, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director misinterpreted certain evidence submitted initially and 
in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). For the reasons discussed below, we 
conclude that the Director miscategorized the field of extraordinary ability for which the Petitioner 
requested consideration. Specifically, the petition lists the Petitioner's occupation as "Coach/Speaker 
/ Teacher," and the record highlights his contributions as an educator through his development of 
original teaching methods that introduced and popularized the practice ofl I in Mexico. 
The Director, however, categorized the Petitioner's claim as one of extraordinary ability in the field 
2 
of "traditional Chinese medicine under the sciences." On remand, the Director should evaluate the 
Petitioner as an educator in the field of I I 
We also conclude that the Director did not adequately address all the claimed evidentiary criteria. An 
officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(1)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director did not adequately 
explain the reasons for denial of the petition, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
On remand, the Director should review the evidence of record relating to the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (viii), and (ix). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of an award of recognition received from the former deputy director 
of the _________ in China for the Petitioner's teaching endeavors in Mexico. A 
letter from the president of an academy of Chinese disciplines in Italy describes the "highly symbolic" 
award as having never before been granted to a foreign practitioner of the discipline. 
In his decision, the Director summarily stated that the Petitioner has not offered independent, objective 
evidence to show that the award is considered a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. The Director provided no explanation or analysis of the evidence 
submitted. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(1)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. at 786. On remand, 
the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it 
meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in thefieldfor which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion, as the published material submitted is 
related to the Petitioner and his specific work in the field for which classification is sought, and the 
publications qualify as major media publications. 
Notably, with regard to articles in El Universal and Buen Hagar (Good Housekeeping), the Director 
erroneously stated that they "merely reference or quote [ the Petitioner] but are not about [ the 
Petitioner]." However, upon review, these articles name the Petitioner and describe his training and 
expertise inl las well as his intention to teach the discipline outside of China. Further, 
the record contains numerous articles about the Petitioner and his work published in various additional 
national publications distributed within Mexico, as well as major, internationally-recognized 
magazines. Also, the Director mischaracterized the probative value of some of the printed online 
3 
sources. He stated that they consist of "minimized screenshots and snippets ... whose print in many 
cases is too small to read or in Spanish." However, upon review, the relevant materials are legible; 
the corresponding translations are present; the materials show their titles, dates, and authors; and they 
relate to the Petitioner's work in the field for which classification is sought. We therefore conclude 
that the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted three certificates of acknowledgement from the National Cancer lnstitute-
1 NCan, a public institution administered by the Mexican Secretariat of Health-as evidence of his 
academic contributions to the field ofl I The record also contains numerous articles 
and letters of support that reference the Petitioner's work introducing I Ito Mexico and 
the original teaching methods he developed to promote and spread the discipline to thousands of 
people. Several articles and letters also reference the positive impacts of the Petitioner's teachings on 
employee productivity. Notably, the record includes letters from three prominent individuals: the 
aforementioned president of an academy of Chinese disciplines in Italy, a former manager of editorial 
development at Reforma in Mexico, and formerl I Although these 
letters describe the Petitioner's acclaim in Mexico for his influence on thousands of people through 
his teaching process, the Director concluded that "they do not demonstrate [the Petitioner's] original 
contributions of major significance to traditional Chinese medicine." The Director did not evaluate 
whether the letters demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance as an 
educator in the field ofl 1 Similarly, the Director did not evaluate whether the 
published articles in the record demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions of major 
significance as an educator. 
Additionally, the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence using the standards for the final-merits 
determination, stating that "an individual with sustained national or international acclaim should be 
able to produce unsolicited materials reflecting that acclaim." Under Kazarian, the issue of whether 
a Petitioner's achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim is only 
assessed after it has been determined that they meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.S(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criterion. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
1 We note that the Director deemed the letters of support as "solicited," and gave them less evidentiary weight. However, 
the Director issued an RFE requesting the submission of additional letters from notable figures to supplement those initially 
submitted. The Petitioner obtained the requested letters and submitted them in response to the RFE. 
4 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi ii). 
The Petitioner submitted numerous articles and letters of support to establish that his business,! I 
qualifies as an organization or establishment having a distinguished reputation. In his 
decision, the Director cited articles that reference the blessing and encouragement given by China's 
for the Petitioner to teachl I in Mexico, stating, 
"[T]hese articles are sympathetic to your cause and constitute promotional material. As such, they are 
not objective sources of your business's distinguished reputation." However, the articles do not appear 
to be advertisements, nor do they appear to be authored by anyone affiliated with ____ 
With regard to the letters of support, the Director stated, "You also submitted letters from your 
followers who do not offer independent, objective views regarding your business." However, the 
Director did not provide any analysis for this determination. Also, absent an explanation, the Director 
stated, "Nor do your tax statements establish the distinction of your organization." The Director's 
determination of the Petitioner's qualifications under this criterion consists of conclusory statements 
without corresponding analysis. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a){l){i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 
at 786. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criteria 
to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As evidence of his high income relative to others in similar fields, the Petitioner submitted receipts 
showing his earnings for various speaking engagements, his tax statements, and printouts from 
websites showing salaries in Mexico for occupations he believed to be comparative to his vocation. 
The Director did not adequately assess the contents of the tax statements because of his conclusion 
that they "are not signed and appear to be computer-generated work sheets." However, on appeal, the 
Petitioner affirms that the statements "are downloaded from the Mexican government's tax platform 
and do not include ... any signature or designated space for any signature." Further, the Director's 
analysis of the salary data is misplaced due to the Director's erroneous categorization of the 
Petitioner's field of extraordinary ability, as previously discussed. On remand, the Director should 
fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criteria to determine if it meets the requirements 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (viii), and (ix). If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
of these initial evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the 
record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the 
5 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20687003 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 3, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney and managing partner at a Brazilian law firm, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition and dismissed a subsequent motion to 
reconsider , concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three 
of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 1 The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
1 The Director also dismissed the subsequent motion because it was not accompanied by a statement about whether or not 
the unfavorable decision has been the subject of any judicial proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(iii)(C). The required 
statement on judicial proceedings under 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C) is a procedural rule that helps U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services identify those cases involving judicial proceedings so they can be held in abeyance pending the 
outcome of litigation involving the originally filed petition. See, e.g. Memorandum from Richard E. Norton, Assoc. 
Comm'r for Examinations, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Adjudication of Petitions and Applications which are 
in Litigation or Pending Appeal (Feb. 8, 1989). The brief accompanying the Petitioner 's appeal addresses the Director's 
ground for dismissal by confirming that his petition is not and has not been the subject of any judicial proceeding . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that he qualifies as "an individual of extraordinary ability in the highly 
specialized field of transnational corporate law, particularly for his expertise in complex transactions 
involving commercial tax and labor laws and regulations." Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met 
seven of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, published material about him, participation 
as a judge of the work of others, original contributions of major significance, authorship of scholarly 
articles, leading or critical role, and significantly high remuneration. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the criteria relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles and leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets 
the awards for excellence, published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, 
original contributions of major significance, and significantly high remuneration criteria, and that the 
Director therefore should have proceeded to a final merits determination. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specialization. The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion because he has served 
as a member of multiple Ph.D. dissertation committees that made the final judgment as to whether an 
individual candidate's body of work satisfied the requirements for a doctoral degree in Law. For example, 
the record indicates that the Petitioner served on a panel that evaluated Ph.D. candidates' thesis topics 
such as 'The Import Tax Incidence Matrix Rule," "Participative Tax Law: Administrative Transaction 
and Arbitration of Tax Obligation," and "Typicity, Antijuridicity and Culpability in Tax Violations." We 
2 
agree with the Petitioner that the work he judged in these instances falls within an allied field of 
specialization for which classification is sought. 
In satisfying this third criterion, the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial of the 
petition. Granting the third initial criterion, however, does not suffice to establish eligibility for the 
classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze 
the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish 
extraordinary ability in his field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678669 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 3, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an asset manager specializing in insurance and pensions, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), participation as a judge 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that she garnered sustained national 
or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
demonstrating that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On 
appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim, 2 that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
1 Meeting the minimum requirement of providing required initial evidence does not, in itself, establish that the person in 
fact meets the requirements for extraordinary ability classification. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A) (stating that "such acclaim must be maintained" and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability 
in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner indicated that since 2005 she has served as "the Director of the Pension 
Market and R&D Center and the Asset Custody Department in She provided 
a statement asserting: 
I have over 20 years of experience in assets management, including more than 15 years 
of experience serving retirees and senior citizens. I received a Ph.D. degree in 
management and have extensive knowledge of the financial market. I have the skills 
and networks required to acquire high-net-worth clients from China. After working for 
over 20 years in the financial industry, I have developed personal wealth, business 
acumen, and deep investment expertise. 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has presented published material about her, has 
judged the work of others, and has authored scholarly articles, the record does not demonstrate that 
she enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to published material, the Petitioner offered a 2018 article in China Enterprise News 
briefly mentioning her experience and then interviewing her about I I I I She also presented documents indicating that she was interviewed 
by !Televisions in Beijing" for I lnews" programming inl 12018, but the 
record does not include an actual transcript of the television report. 4 In addition, the Petitioner 
provided video screenshots which she claims show multiple 2018 interviews of her by China 
Securities Journal staff that appeared on the Xinhua News mobile app. 5 Furthermore, the record 
includes a 2018 article fromMBAChina.com, entitled I 
6 
While the Petitioner indicated that she has worked in her field for more than 20 years, she did not 
present any media coverage of her prior to or after 2018. The Petitioner therefore did not demonstrate 
that her press coverage is consistent with the "sustained" national or international acclaim necessary 
for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 Without a transcript from the television program, the Petitioner has not shown that the coverage was about her. 
5 These interviews are about the Chinese pension system, insurance, and retirement planning rather than the Petitioner. 
6 The author of this article was not identified. 
3 
did not show how the aforementioned media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on her and her 
activities reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the 
Petitioner's media exposure limited to 2018 does not meet this very high standard. For example, 
almost all of the media coverage involves the Petitioner discussing topics such as insurance and 
pensions rather than material about Petitioner and her accomplishments. 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 7 The Petitioner 
submitted a March 2019 letter from the "Editorial Office ofl I stating 
that she reviewed 10 manuscripts for that journal in 2018. She also provided a March 2019 letter from 
the "Editorial Office ofl I stating that she reviewed 21 manuscripts for that journal 
since 2018. Both letters state that reviewers for each journal "are all experts in the insurance industry." 
At issue here is the extent to which the Petitioner's peer review activities have required, reflected, or 
resulted in her being nationally or internationally acclaimed. The Petitioner, however, did not present 
documentation indicating the aforementioned journals' specific requirements for selection of peer 
reviewers. For instance, reviewing manuscripts for journals that select their reviewers based on 
subject matter expertise would not provide strong support for the petition, because possessing 
expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than sustained national or international 
acclaim, and an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). Nor is there 
objective supporting evidence (such as journal rankings from an independent source) demonstrating 
the stature of and I to show that the Petitioner's peer 
review service is reflective of national or international acclaim. 
Therefore, although the record shows that the Petitioner has reviewed multiple journal articles for I I and I I this evidence does not demonstrate how her 
peer review activity compares to or differentiates her from her peers in the field. Similarly, the 
evidence in the record does not show that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
for her service as a peer reviewer. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Without this or other evidence 
differentiating her from others in her field, the Petitioner has not established how her peer review 
experience contributes to establishing that she is among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
The Petitioner also rovided documentation indicatin that she served as a jude at the 
2018 
She has not shown, however, that serving as a 
judge at this construction and development conference involved judging the work of others in her field 
of asset management (specializing in insurance and pensions) or in an allied field. Additionally, the 
submitted documentation does not indicate whose work the Petitioner judged, their stature in the field, 
the re uirements for selection as a jude or the resti e associated with servin as a jude at 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging at this 
conference contributes to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the field or the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. For instance, the Petitioner did not establish that she garnered wide attention from the field based 
on her service as a judge. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that her judging experience places 
her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging experience is consistent with the 
"sustained" national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. While the Petitioner asserted that she has worked in her field for 
more than 20 ears, her · ud in ex erience for 
_____________ is limited to 2018 and early 2019. Accordingly, she has not 
demonstrated that her service as a judge is indicative of "sustained" acclaim. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 8 Although 
the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that she has authored one article in China Finance, 
one article in Journal of Central University of Finance and Economics, parts of a two-volume book 
series, and a book chapter, she did not demonstrate that her publication record is consistent with having 
a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 
and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor did the Petitioner submit evidence showing the significance 
of her authorships or how her overall publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very 
top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's published work 
can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for articles 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that 
others have been influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided information from 
CNKI.net reflecting that the Petitioner's published work has been cited almost 60 times. The record, 
however, does not include comparative statistics indicating how often others in the Petitioner's field 
are cited. While the citation of her work shows that some in her field have referenced it, the Petitioner 
8 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). supra (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 
has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 9 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to her work represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. As it relates 
to her roles, the Petitioner has been serving as the Director of the Pension Market and R&D Center 
and the Asset Custody Department atl I since 2005. The Petitioner also presented 
letters of appointment assigninFi her as a "mentor" for the MBA programs at bothl I I !University andl University I I In addition, she provided a letter informing her 
of her appointment as a "Council Member" of the Pension Branch of the I I I I However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her positions are reflective of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The 
Petitioner did not show that her roles with I 
University! !University I and the Pension Branch of th I I I have earned distinction, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Nor did she establish that any of 
her roles resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, that she drew significant attention from the 
greater field, or that the overall field considers her to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition the Petitioner rovided an Au ust 2018 letter invitin eak at the I 
in 
from 8 to 10 September." She has not shown, however, that speaking at this construction summit 
signifies national or international acclaim in the field of asset management.1° Further, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence from the organizers of this summit indicating that they reserve their speaking 
invitations for those at the very top of her field. The Petitioner's participation in the aforementioned 
summit may demonstrate that her work was shared with individuals in the construction industry, but 
it does not show that she has sustained national or international acclaim in the field of asset 
management for insurance and pensions. 
With regard to her salary, the Petitioner provided "Salary and Tax" statements reflecting earnings of 
RMB $365,539 in 2016, $367,120 in 2017, and $336,389 in 2018. She also presented a Kelly 
Services 2017 China Salary Guide listing minimum and maximum RMB annual salary amounts for 
various occupations in the "Banking and Financial Services" sector.11 For example, the guide lists the 
minimum salary for both an "Equity Research Director" and a "Corporate Finance Director" with 10-
15 years of experience as RMB $1,000,000, which is much higher than the Petitioner's salary in 2016, 
9 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated how citation to her articles, individually or collectively, compares to those who are 
nationally or internationally recognized in her field. 
10 The accompanying itinerary for this construction summit indicates that its focus was on rural revitalization and 
development rather than asset management for insurance and pensions. 
11 The Petitioner does not specify which occupational titles in the ·'Banking and Financial Services" sector most closely 
align with her position as "Director of the Pension Market and R&D Center and the Asset Custody Department" at 
1 1 
6 
2017, and 2018. The Petitioner's evidence did not show that she has earned a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Without documentation demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or 
was significantly high in relation to others in the field, she has not demonstrated that her earnings 
place her among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner also offered recommendation letters discussing her work for and 
her standing in the field. 12 For exampleJ l professor a University, indicated 
that the Petitioner "developed a pension management product, which is a prototype similar to United 
States' personal pension plans in China." I I further stated: "Not only did her product lay the 
foundations for the development of a personal pension account similar to that of the United States in 
China, but it also promoted the design of multiple pension funds that were approved by the China 
Securities Regulatory Commission." In addition, I I professor atl I I I asserted that the Petitioner "is highly regarded in her field as she has achieved great 
success in the design and development of individual pension products. Her talents and achievements 
are invaluable assets which would be beneficial to any company she serves." 
FurthermoreJ I professor atl I University, stated that the Petitioner "designed 
the pension security management fund and custody forl I and that she "is one of 
the most highly respected and accomplished experts in individual plans among her peers in the field." 
Similarly] I professor atl I University, asserted that "[h ]aving worked in the 
sphere of pension finance for 14 years, [ the Petitioner] is one of the chief experts in the field of pension 
business." 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner, however, did not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor did the record include corroborating evidence, to show that she is viewed by the 
overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Additionally, the evidence did not establish that 
she has made impactfol or influential contributions in the field reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The letters described the Petitioner's work without showing 
how it represents an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
12 While we discuss a sampling of these recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). In the present matter, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19893950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cardiovascular researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must meet at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his eligibility for an additional criterion. After 
reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Although his brief makes various eneral claims about his research and work, the Petitioner focuses 
on his paper entitled, 
published in the European Heart Journal on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology (ESC). The Petitioner references a letter from I I who 
stated: 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual (providing that although funded and 
published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance) . 
2 
His paper has already helped in formulation of two international guidelines which 
outline the worldwide standards for care to be followed in the care of patients. These 
guidelines include the 20181 
I I guideline on 
published in the European Heart Journal as well as the 2018 _____ 
I I published in the Journal of the American Heart 
Association. These guidelines form the basis of diagnosis and management of patients 
withl I in various conditions. [The Petitioner's] influence on these two 
major international guidelines from the leading heart associations in the world is huge. 
This has improved the medical care of patients who suffer from this complication after 
cardiac surgery and improve patient outcomes after cardiac surgery at our center as 
well as worldwide. 
The Petitioner also cites to other letters commenting on his papers and the guidelines, such as 
"[p ]hysicians and researchers around the world typically refer to these guidelines when making 
decisions on how to manage care of their patients in their daily practice" I land "[t]hese 
guidelines are considered the best source of information for researchers, cardiologist[ s], and cardiac 
surgeons to best understand these conditions and provide a framework for management of these 
conditions on an international level"I I 
The record contains the "2018 While the '---------------------------' letters indicated the importance of the guidelines in the field, a review of these guidelines do not show 
that his paper played a significant part or role in its creation. I I letter indicated that the 
Petitioner's paper helped in the formulation of guidelines; however, the Petitioner's paper is 1 of 786 
other articles cited within the guidelines. Moreover, the Petitioner's paper is not highlighted or 
distinguished from the other references. Indeed, the guidelines make a single, brief reference to the 
Petitioner's paper, indicating that [ f]urther details on the diagnosis and management ofl I 
Dare provided in a recent position paper" without any further elaboration. In the case here, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner's paper within the guidelines resulted in a contribution of 
major significance. 2 
In addition, the letters do not articulate and explain how the Petitioner's paper "has improved the 
medical care of patients" and "im rove d atient outcomes." I I Likewise, the Petitioner 
references a letter from _______ who generally stated that "through [the Beneficiary's] 
work in bothl I and ___ through an important series of publications, he has made major 
contributions to our understanding of I I afte surgery" without 
expanding on how the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted or influenced the field in a major 
way. In the absence of specific information detailing the impact or influence of the Petitioner's work, 
the letters do not demonstrate that the work has risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner indicates that he submitted independent and objective reference letters. 3 For 
instance, stated that the Beneficiary "appears to be uniquely qualified for a 
2 The record does not contain the "201 to show both the extent and 
significance of the Petitioner's contribution to these guidelines. 
3 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
successful career in academic cardiology" and "[h]]is review ofl I in the intensive care unit 
has been most helpful." Here, the lack of specific, detailed information does not show how the 
Beneficiary's past work has caused contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. In addition, while a letter from I indicated that the Beneficiary's 
proposed treatment discussed in the position paper resulted in him sending out tests for his patients, 
the letter does not discuss how it has impacted the overall field rather than limited to his practice. 4 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's research or work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claims that his paper "was immediately endorsed for use by the American 
College of Cardiology [ACC]" and "[t]his alone shows the sheer impact on the field of cardiology." 
Although the Petitioner submitted two postings from ACC's website indicating the publication of the 
position paper, the screenshots do not support the Petitioner's assertion that ACC immediately 
endorsed his paper or findings. Again, the postings simply report on the paper's publication and 
summarize its points; there is no indication that ACC endorsed the paper or that the field considers the 
resulting research to be a contribution of major significance. 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that all of his published works have garnered more than 600 citations. 
As guidance, examples of original work that constitutes major, significant contributions include, but 
not limited to, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working 
in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's 
work as authoritative in the field. 7 In addition, citatory evidence may contain probative value in 
corroborating statements in recommendation letters or supporting other documentation in establishing 
the significance of the contributions. If the Petitioner provides citatory evidence, the burden remains 
with the Petitioner to show the accuracy, reliability, and relevance of those figures and explain how 
they demonstrate original contributions of major significance in the field. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations represents 
contributions of major significance in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a 
petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying which published research, if any, the 
field considers to be majorly significant. Here, the Petitioner does not explain or specify how the 
number of citations to his individual or particular articles resulted in original contributions of major 
4 See 6 users Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
5 See 6 USeIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. See also Kazarian. 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulat01y 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner contends that his articles have been published in 
"prestigious medical journals." The Petitioner did not establish that the publication of articles in highly 
ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research in the field or that every article published in a "prestigious" journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 
F.3d 1115. 
We note that at initial filing the Petitioner provided citation data from Google Scholar reflecting that 
his position paper discussed above received 65 citations while two of his most citation papers received 
307 and 107 citations, respectively. Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an 
indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the citation figures for any of his written published articles are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of the citation data. For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations 
are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field recognizes as having 
been majorly significant. Although this citations indicate that his research and work has received some 
attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation numbers to his individual 
articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 8 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 
(BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal/), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645032 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 06, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a licensed professional engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
individuals who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either 
through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or by satisfying at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was employed as an HV AC Project Engineer withl I I I at the time of filing in January 2021, and that he joined! I 
in a similar role shortly thereafter. He earned his bachelor of engineering degree in polymer 
materials and engineering froml IUniversityl in China in 2012, and a master 
of science in mechanical engineering froml I University in 2015. The Petitioner has completed 
additional specialized professional training and at the time of filing, he was enrolled in a graduate 
certificate program in nanotechnology at I I University. The Petitioner is a licensed 
professional engineer in the states of Texas and California and indicates his intent to continue working 
in the engineering services field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserts that he can meet six of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or international-recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional journals; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic showcases or exhibitions; and 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
2 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the claimed criteria. The record supports 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner has published scholarly articles in professional 
publications in his field, and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked relevant evidence demonstrating that he 
meets the additional claimed criteria and is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
According to the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion must establish that an individual is the recipient of a prize or award, that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized, and that the prize or award is one for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. 1 
The Petitioner submitted evidence related to his participation in three competitions or "challenges" 
sponsored by I University, including a 2020 Challenge, a 20211 I challenge, 
and a 2022 Competition. The record reflects that the latter two competitions took place after 
the filing of this petition in January 2021. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements 
for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F .R.:.il.Q1.2(b )(1 ). Therefore, we will limit our discussion to the award the Petitioner 
received in the 2020 L__JChallenge, which is the only documented prize or award that pre-dates 
the filing of the petition 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included an e-mail from the 
Team indicating that his team has "been selected to receive a Challenge prize of $375" 
as well as a copy of a check in that amount issued to him by __ University. The Director 
advised the Petitioner that the submitted documentation was insufficient to demonstrate that he had 
received a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field and 
requested additional evidence in support of his eligibility under this criterion. 
The Director observed that the supplemental documentation submitted in response to the request for 
evidence (RFE) indicated that the 2020 I I Challenge was a graduate-level college 
compet1t10n. The Director acknowledged that individuals who are not I I students may 
participate but concluded that the evidence did not establish that the competition awards nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes for excellence. In this regard, the Director referenced evidence 
explaining that the competition is a project-based "challenge" organized atl I in which 
students' projects are assessed based on "thoroughness; creativity; technical depth; flexibility and 
robustness; and readiness to deploy in a short timeframe." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field.) 
3 
Director failed to consider all the evidence submitted in response to the RFE. He maintains that his 
2020 I !Challenge award meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
that he meets this criterion. 
The record reflects that individuals who wished to participate in the 20201 I Challenge 
were required to register for a noncredit I I University engineering course during the 2020 
I I term which was graded on a pass/fail basis. A description that appeared on the I 
Engineering website states that "[ e Jach design challenge promises to be an intense and fun, fast 
learning experience where students will take a deep dive into various subjects." As noted by the 
Director, while the record indicates that not all project team members are required to bel I 
students, the description of the program indicates that it is intended for engineering students who are 
expected to work on their projects under the guidance of assigned faculty or mentors; it is not a 
competition designed for seasoned professional engineers and it is unclear whether the participating 
teams included non-student members. The criteria used to grant the award and any limitations on 
competitors may be considered in determining whether a given prize or award was based on 
"excellence in the field."2 
The evidence indicates that 14 teams competed in the 2020 I I Challenge during the 
term in which the Petitioner was enrolled. His two-person team received a "mention" award 
as a top five finisher, but he did not win one of the top three prizes. Further, the record does not 
include evidence that the awards or prizes issued at the conclusion of the challenge were recognized 
outside of the awarding institution, as all submitted notices of the challenge results were reported in I lown publications and in internal emails to participating students and I I staff. This 
evidence is insufficient to demonstrate the national or international recognition associated with the 
award. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director did not consider the international reputation enjoyed by I !University and its engineering department. Further, he emphasizes that another winning 
team went on to receive $6 million in fonding for a project initiated as part of al I I I Challenge. However, neither the university's reputation nor the success enjoyed by a fellow 
competitor is sufficient to establish that the honorable mention award the Petitioner received in this 
student competition is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. For 
the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards 
or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 
4 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association, and that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based his membership in the ASM I I Committee. The Petitioner provided evidence that he served two three-year terms (from 
2015 to 2021) as a member of this committee of ASM International, a professional association in the 
materials engineering field. 4 However, the Director determined that the supporting documentation, 
which included ASM International' s Constitution and Bylaws and evidence specific to the I I I !Committee, did not establish that admission as a member is conditioned on having 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by conflating the requirements for regular 
individual professional membership in ASM International with the requirements for committee 
membership appointment, noting that the latter "far exceeds the standard requirements for regular 
membership" referenced in the Director's decision. In this regard, he notes the limited size of the 
ASMI I committee (26 to 30 members) as "an extremely important factor." In 
addition, he emphasizes that the previously submitted evidence establishes that committee 
appointments must ultimately be approved by members of the ASM Board, which is comprised of 
recognized experts in the field. 
The Petitioner provided a published profile of the ASM _______ Committee, which 
describes qualifications for membership as follows: "ADP Committee members are experts in the field 
ofl I (most are PhD's) and are typically! I users and researchers." It also 
identifies the committee size as "26-30 members." The submitted Rules for Government of ASM 
International, at Article V, discuss "Society Committees and Councils," and indicate that these 
committees are comprised of individual professional members of ASM, assembled for the purpose of 
conducting designated functions of the Society. Regarding committee appointments, the Rules for 
Government indicate that "[aa ]11 Society Committee appointments shall be reviewed and nominated by 
the Vice President ... and shall be subject to approval by the Board." 
Based on this limited information, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's appointment to 
the ASM _______ Committee required "outstanding achievements." While the record 
indicates that the committee members are expected to be "experts" in the field ofl 
there is insufficient information to support a determination that ASM equates expertise in a given field 
with "outstanding achievements." The submitted evidence does not sufficiently explain what specific 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner also provided evidence of his membership in a standards 
committee of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). He did not 
claim eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on this committee membership at the time offiling in January 2021. 
A submitted roster for the ASHRAE committee indicates that the Petitioner began his term as a non-voting member on 
March 20, 2021. As emphasized above, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The evidence does not demonstrate that he 
was a member in the ASHRAE committee when the petition was filed. 
5 
criteria are used to evaluate prospective members and as such, it does not establish whether outstanding 
achievements are required as a condition for membership. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the ASM I Committee is limited 
to no more than 30 members, but he has not explained, and the record does not demonstrate, how the 
number of members admitted to the committee is relevant to an evaluation of whether the membership 
satisfies all requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While it is likely true that many ASM 
individual professional members do not serve on committees, it does not automatically follow that all 
committee members are appointed based on their outstanding achievements, as opposed to their 
specific research interests, educational and professional background, or other factors. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to show that he has participated as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. 
The Petitioner claims that the meets this criterion based on his activities as a member of the ASM 
Committee. 5 5 The initial evidence included the meeting minutes of an October 
2015 committee meeting, attended by the Petitioner, which listed "Nominations" as an agenda item. 
The meeting minutes indicate that there was a call for written nominations for the ' Industrial 
A ward" and that no one made any suggestions during the meeting. In addition, the meeting minutes 
identify a nominee for the A ward" but do not further elaborate or indicate that the nominee or 
his work were or would be reviewed by the committee. The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot 
from the website of ASM International which provides an overview of the ASM's Journal of Phase 
Equilibria & D[ffusion (also referred to as JPED). This page lists the editors and associate editors of 
the journal and includes the names of the members of the Committee.6 
In the request for evidence, the Director acknowledged the submitted meeting minutes but advised the 
Petitioner that the initial evidence did not establish that he, individually or as a member of a panel, 
actually participated in judging of the work of others. 
In response, the Petitioner explained that the ASM I Committee is responsible for 
reviewing nominees for the I I A ward. He submitted the minutes of a 
September 2019 committee meeting at which he was present. The meeting minutes reference the 
5 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also provided evidence related to his committee activities with ASHRAE 
in support of this criterion. As discussed, the record reflects that the Petitioner did not become an ASHRAE committee 
member until after he filed this petition. His committee membership and any associated judging activities cannot establish 
his eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv) as of the date of filing. Therefore, we limit our 
discussion to evidence that pre-dated the filing of the petition. 
6 A description of the key responsibilities of the ASM ______ Committee indicates that it maintains 
"continual surveillance of the technical quality of JPED," including responsibility for advising the editor and staff on 
technical matters. 
6 
A ward" and state: is the recipient of the 2020 award. The committee was reminded 
to be mindful of the February 1 deadline for nominations for the I I Award." The Petitioner also 
provided a copy of an article published in the Journal of Phase Equilibria and Diffusion titled I I 
which announces! I receipt of the 
award. The article briefly discusses the history of the award and indicates that it was first proposed 
by the ASM ______ Committee in 2007. 
The Director determined that none of the submitted evidence corroborated the Petitioner's claim that 
his committee membership or his presence at committee meetings entailed judging the work of others. 
Specifically, the Director observed that the record lacked detailed information regarding the specific 
responsibilities of ASM committee members and meeting attendees with respect 
to evaluating nominations for awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director did not carefully review the evidence, noting that 
the previously submitted documentation demonstrates his participation as a judge in the committee 
panel that reviewed thel I Award candidates. He states that the ASM _______ 
Committee "has the ability to nominate award candidates and review and discuss the nominator [sic] 
during the I J annual meeting." The Petitioner indicates that his presence at an annual 
meeting in which nominations and awards were on the agenda shows that he was part of the committee 
panel during the I I Award nomination process. Finally, he indicates that "the submitted 
documents do not include more confidential nomination process related to the ASM committee panel, 
because the disclosure of those confidential information to USCIS might break some security policy 
between the petitioner and the ASM." 
Upon review, the evidence does not sufficiently document the role of the ASM 
committee in general, or the Petitioner's role specifically, in judging the work of others in connection 
with the Award or any other ASM award program. The committee profile 
the Petitioner provided from ASM International's website contains no specific information regarding 
this committee's role in reviewing the work of award nominees or determining winners of ASM 
awards. 7 Further, the record does not include evidence such as the rules governing the nomination 
and selection process for the I I award for which the Petitioner claims he acted as a 
judge. The record establishes that award nominations and the announcement ofl IA ward winners 
are an agenda item at the Committee's semi-annual meetings. However, it does 
not corroborate the Petitioner's assertion that his presence at such meetings alone serves as sufficient 
evidence that he was part of a committee panel that reviewed the work of nominees and selected the 
winners of the awards, or otherwise performed activities that meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
We have also considered evidence that the ASM committee members are listed 
along with editorial staff in Journal of Phase Equilibria and D[ffusion and note that the Director did 
not specifically address this evidence. The record reflects that the I committee is 
responsible for "surveillance of the technical quality" of the journal and may consult with the editorial 
7 According to ASM's public website (https://www.asmintemational.org/committees-and-councils), it has an "Awards 
Policy Committee" that is "responsible for the awards activity of the Society. It recommends to the Board suitably chosen 
and properly qualified nominees for the various awards and honors of the Society." 
7 
and technical staff. However, the limited evidence submitted does not establish that the committee's 
members are responsible for reviewing, editing, or recommending manuscripts for publication or 
performing other peer review activities that would constitute judging the work of others in the field. 
Overall, based on the evidence submitted, the Petitioner has not established his participation as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or allied field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated he was submitting evidence of his presentation of a 
conference paper at the 2015 ASHRAEI I Conference and evidence of a speaking engagement at 
thel I Trade Show under this criterion. In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this 
evidence, noting that it showed that he displayed his research work at scientific conferences or 
symposia. The Director advised the Petitioner that such venues could not be considered "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" as required by the plain language of the regulation. In the denial, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner provided no additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that he did not pursue his initial claim that his conference 
presentations meet this criterion. However, he asserts that the Director overlooked evidence that he 
participated in an "artistic music showcase." The record includes an online article titled I published by the newsroom of thel I University ____ in May 
2020. The article discusses efforts by alumni and current students, who worked together with medical 
centers to fund, obtain and distribute shipments of personal protective equipment from China during 
the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic. The article indicates that some of the students and 
alumni arranged a virtual concerti I to "bring comfort to the community through 
music." The concert featured! I students, alumni and their families, and the Petitioner is 
named among the students who participated. 
The Petitioner asserts that his participation in the concert demonstrates "his engineering determination 
to build a better world by all his skills and talents with his effort to unify people against the COVID-
19 pandemic." However, even if this concert could be considered an artistic showcase of the 
Petitioner's work, it did not showcase his "work in the field" in which he seeks classification as a 
individual of extraordinary ability. It appears that he intended to connect this artistic endeavor to the 
20201 !Challenge in which he participated. While both projects were initiated in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the concert is unrelated to his field of engineering, his research 
interests, and his professional duties and cannot be deemed to be in his field. Therefore, while we 
have considered evidence of his participation in the virtual concert, he has not 
shown that it satisfies this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iv) or (vii). As noted, he must demonstrate that he meets at least three criteria to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. While the Petitioner claims to meet one 
additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), our determination that he does not any of the criteria 
8 
discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the 
Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation, or his 
appellate claims relating to this criterion. 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22395252 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a software development entrepreneur, as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states: 
[The Beneficiary] is a well-known, widely respected, and exceedingly accomplished 
Entrepreneur who specializes in I He also holds the distinction of 
being one of the top 1001 I entrepreneurs inLJ and has had enormous success in 
the field of startup innovation technology. As Founder and Chairmanofthd I I I [ of] Companies, [the Beneficiary] has developed numerous highly successful 
startups in the areas ofinformation technology, enterprise software] and 
more. Notably, the small I I startup he founded more than 2 decades 
ago,I I became a leading, nationally lauded company in the I I 
space. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown thatthe Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must instead submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have submitted 
evidence to satisfy six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the 
work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Beneficiary also performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation, thereby satisfying the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that the evidence satisfies this third criterion. 
The Benefici is chairman and chief executive officer ofl I and "is also the board chairman 
of each of subsidiar com anies." The Beneficiary is also a cofounder and member of 
the board of trustees for __________ The Director agreed that these capacities 
constitute leading or critical roles. The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner had not 
2 
established thatl and have distinguished reputations, defined 
as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person. "1 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not fully consider record evidence of the reputations 
of these organizations. We agree. Published articles in the record refer to I asl I I land indicate that it one ofits flagship products has" a market 
share." This evidence, uncontradicted in the record, is sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the 
evidence that I has a distinguished reputation. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "while these organizations may enjoy some local popularity in 
Iran, the record does not contain evidence of their eminence, distinction, or excellence in the field as a 
whole." This conclusion, however, imposes a requirement that the organizations must have a 
distinguished reputation at an international level. The statute and regulations, however, referto "national 
or international acclaim"; a distinguished reputation in one country is sufficient within this framework. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), "A petition for an alien of extraordinary ability must be accompanied by 
evidence that the alien has sustained national or international acclaim and that his or her achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise." 
Because theevidenceaboutl is sufficientto meetthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we need not explore, here, the question ofwhethe __________ also has a distinguished 
reputation. 
If the Director had not reached an erroneous conclusion about the distinguished reputation ofl I 
then the Director would have proceeded to a final merits determination to weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if the Beneficiary's successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
Therefore, we will remand the matter, so that the Director may undertake the final merits determination 
that would have ensued if not for the Director's error. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited in 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678700 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who describes his job title as "biopsychosocial specialist,"1 seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
1 The Petitionerprovides the SOC (Standard Occupational Classification) code 11-9111, which corresponds to "Medical 
and Health Services Managers." 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning medical degrees at various universities in Venezuela, the Petitioner established an 
obstetrical/gynecological (OB/GYN) practice in !Venezuela in 2010, and worked at 
I !University Hospital also inl I In that practice, 
the Petitioner stated: "I designed my own approach model ... , which I named 'Biopsychosocial 
Evaluation."' The Petitioner stated that "biopsychosocial evaluation ... is structured to evaluate three 
aspects as follows: biological, psychological, and family-social," allowing for "a personalized action 
plan." The Petitioner entered the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor in August 2014. The 
Petitioner is not licensed to practice medicine in the United States.2 He does, however, hold several 
certifications and registrations in the health care field, as a medical assistant, surgical assistant, 
professional midwife, and medical sonographer. Since 2018, he has worked as a midwife and 
sonographer atl I inl I Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets five other criteria, relating to 
memberships, published material, participation as a judge, original contributions, and leading or 
2 In his initial statement, submitted with the petition, the Petitioner stated: "I will not rest until I obtain my MD license in 
this country so that I can fully pursue my profession and my passion." On appeal, the Petitioner states: "I am continuing 
my education to obtain a license as MD." The Petitioner does notspecifywhathaspreventedhim fromobtaininga license 
to practice medicine in the United States. 
2 
critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria relating 
to prizes and display, and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned.3 
The Petitioner cites his intention to continue working in the area of claimed extraordinary ability, 
stating: "To my understanding, this forms part of part of one of the ten categories." But such an 
intention relates to a separate requirement, at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5). 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, relating to 
authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a judge of the work of others. We will discuss the 
other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed several memberships under this criterion. He is an "Active Member" of the 
VenezuelanAssociationfortheAdvancementofScience(AsoVAC, or AsoVac ); an "Affiliated Member" 
of the Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Venezuela (SOGV); and an active member of the 
American College of Nurse Midwives (ACNM). As explained below, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner has not shown that the associations have sufficiently restrictive membership 
requirements. 
A translated letter from the secretary general of Aso V AC's Chapter reads, in part: 
Aso Vac accepts as members those professionals who complete a rigorous process of 
background screening where it is confirmed that the candidate is an individual who has 
exceptional achievements with research capabilities able to meet the provisions of 
Chapters V and VI of the Statutes of our organization .... 
. . . [ A ]11 the information submitted is evaluated by an Expert Committee composed of the 
most important scientists who are members of the association. 
Aso VAC's Statutes, also in the record, do not corroborate the above statement. The Statutes state: "In 
order to be an Active Member it is required to hold a Superior Education Degree and conduct research, 
promotion and diffusion activities of scientific and/or technical knowledge, and be so lventwith the yearly 
fee." The Statutes also describe a separatemembership category, "Honorary Members," "who desetVe 
this distinction owing to their scientific work." Nominations for honorary membership are to be submitted 
to "the National Steering Committee," whereas individuals seeking active membership "request their 
registration ... before the [local] Chapter Steering Committee." 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
3 
Aso VAC's governing documents do not establish that the association requires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, as a condition for active membership, and they 
do not corroborate claims that stricter requirements exist for the level of membership that the Petitioner 
holds. Participation in research and payment of membership dues are not outstanding achievements. We 
note that the record indicates that the Petitioner joined Aso V AC as an active member in November 2000, 
when he was still a medical student His admission at this early stage inhiscareerdoesnotreadilysuggest 
the exclusivity that the regulation requires. 
SOGV documents list the following requirements for affiliated membership: 
• A "Medical Doctor or Surgeon" degree, recognized by "the Venezuelan university authorities"; 
• Recognition as a specialist in OB/GYN, registered with the Venezuelan Medical Association; 
• Submission of a resume and "the Deontological Certificate issued by the corresponding Medical 
Association"; 
• Completion of a three-year "postgraduate course on Obstetrics and Gynecology"; 
• A letter of intention to become a member; 
• Sponsorship by two full members; 
• Up-to-date payment of Medical Association fees; 
• Completion of "the Medical Census Form"; and 
• Payment of registration fees. 
The Petitioner did not establish that any of these requirements, which include what appear to be basic 
professional credentials, amount to outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Regarding the Petitioner's active membership in ACNM, that organization's bylaws show no substantive 
requirement for active membership except an active or past credential as a certified midwife or certified 
nurse midwife. The Petitioner has not established that these certifications are outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, rather than basic credentials for the occupation. 
Beyond the above points, the record shows that the Petitioner did not join ACNM until December 30, 
2021, several weeks after the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) on December 8, 2021. The 
Petitionermustmeetalleligibilityrequirements as of the petition'sfilingdate. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
In this case, the Petitioner filed his petition on November 15, 2021. Other issues aside, this December 
2021 membership cannot retroactively establish eligibility as of the November 2021 filing date. 
Also in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a membership certificate from the Society of 
Diagnostic Medical Sonography (SDMS). The Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to show the 
SDMS's membership requirements, and therefore he has not established that the SDMS requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Furthermore, the certificate indicates that the Petitioner joined the SDMS in 2021, but did not specify the 
exact date. Therefore, the document does not indicate that the Petitioner was already a member when he 
filed the petition in November 2021. Because the burden of proof is on the Petitioner, we will not presume 
that he joined the SDMS before the filing date. We note that he did not claim SDMS membership when 
he first filed the petition. 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown that the memberships described above meet 
the regulatory requirements to satisfy the criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his 
memberships are qualifying, but cites no specific evidence to show that the Director erred in reaching the 
above conclusion. The Petitioner does ref er to "Chapter V, Article 28" of Aso V AC's Statutes, but the 
cited passage lists the membership categories, and states no requirements for active membership other 
than a qualifying college degree and involvement in research, while indicating that applications for active 
membership are filed with local chapters. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
An article on the subject of I appeared in Ciencia Medica al Dia. The article 
quotes the Petitioner, who stated that exercise offers a number of benefits but cautioned that some 
circumstances may limit physical activity. The Petitioner's medical specialty is relevant to the subject of 
the article, but the article is not about the Petitioner, relating to his work in the field. Rather, the article, 
including the Petitioner's quotation, consists of general advice and recommendations. Also, the Petitioner 
has not established that Ciencia Medica al Dia qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or 
other major media. The Petitioner must establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared 
to other publications of its kind. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit circulation or page view data. A printout from the 
magazine's Face book page shows 7854 followers; the Petitioner provided no comparative evidence to 
show that this is a high number for that type of publication in Venezuela. 
The host ofthel !Television program stated that the Petitioner"was invited to 
this prestigious program as a SPECIAL GUEST on multiple occasions" ( emphasis in original), first on a 
monthly basis, but then weekly "due to the constant and countless calls from our audience." The 
Petitioner submitted photographs from the program, but no transcripts or other materials to establish the 
full content of the broadcast material. The regulation does not simply require evidence that published 
material exists; the Petitioner must submit the published material itself. In the case ofradio or television 
broadcasts, a transcript will suffice. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Because the 
Petitioner has not provided a transcript of the broadcast material, he has not shown that his television 
appearances constituted published material about him, rather than, as above, general medical advice. 
Also, the Petitioner has not provided the dates of the broadcasts, asrequiredby 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We note that the three submitted photographs all appear to show the same broadcast. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence to show that the submitted materials meet the regulatory 
requirements to satisfy the criterion. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion. 
The Director therefore concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asks that the Director's conclusion be "reconsidered," but he does not explain 
how that conclusion is in error. 
5 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted two letters under this criterion. The first letter is from onel l a 
physician who studiedatthe same medical school as the Petitioner. Some ofl lletterconsists 
of general asse1iions about the importance of the Petitioner's work, without sufficient details to identify 
specific contributions by the Petitioner and explain how they are of major significance. For example, he 
states that the Petitioner's "innovative medical unit for the care of pregnant adolescents ... makes 
available resources which did not previously exist in health centers, such as interactive workshops." This 
statement does not explain how the Petitioner's innovation is of majorsignificance in the field, as opposed 
to more localized impmiance to a small number of patients in direct contact with the Petitioner or the 
center that employed him. Statistics about improved patient outcome at one hospital do not show 
implementation of the Petitioner's work beyond that one facility, and the letter does not establish that the 
Petitioner's work was solely or primarily responsible for the improvements. 
___ described and praised the Petitioner's "great Bio-psycho-social Assessment model that 
provides solutions to pregnantwomen,"buthe did not showthatthismodelhas been of major significance 
to the field as a whole, rather than the Petitioner's own patients. Furthermore, I claims no 
particular expertise in OB/GYN or biopsychosocial evaluation. Rather, he describes his specialty as 
"Obesity, Nutrition and Anti-Aging Medicine." Because he and the Petitioner practice different 
specialties, it is not readily evident that I possesses sufficient knowledge in the Petitioner's 
field to evaluate the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
The second letter is from one I I "a specialist in Gynecology and Obstetrics [ and] 
Sonographer," specialties that more closel conform to the Petitioner's own areas of expertise. As with 
I I letter, however did not establish the significance of the Petitioner's w01k 
beyond one institution. ___ __,stated that "the Bio-psycho-social Assessment of Pregnant Patients 
[is] a model used in the most important hospital in the city of I Implementation at one 
hospital does not show field-wide significance. She also noted the Petitioner's "offering of free 
sonography courses for postgraduate residents." I did not explain how these activities were 
of major significance throughout the field, rather than locally in We acknowledge her assertion that 
there is a shortage of trained sonographers, but the record does not show that the Petitioner's work in this 
area has significantly alleviated that shortage, andl I did not explain how providing training in 
existing technology constitutes an original contribution. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: 
Evidence must demonstrate that the beneficiary's contributions are not only originaL but 
that they are of major significance in the field. The evidence does not demonstrate the 
major significance of the petitioner's original contributions. The letters praise the 
petitioner's work as a physician and as a great OB/GYN but they do not show major 
contributions as a Biopsychosocial Specialist in the field of biological, psychologicaL and 
family-social and contributions related to scientific, scholarly, artistic or business fields. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his prior work in OB/GYN and sonography should not be viewed 
separately from his work with biopsychosocial evaluation. This objection, however, does not establish 
the claimed major significance ofbiopsychosocial evaluation. The Petitioner states that he developed the 
technique, but he has not submitted evidence of its widespread adoption by others or otherwise shown its 
major significance. The Petitioner claims that his biopsychosocial evaluations reduced local mmiality 
rates, but he does not establish that this reduction spread to a larger area, or that the rates have stayed low; 
the provided statistics span the years 2010 to 2014, years before the petition's filing date. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims to have satisfied the requirements of this criterion through his work as a physician 
in the OB/GYN Service of 4 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown his roles to have been leading or critical. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that political conditions in Venezuela prevented him from receiving 
significant recognition, whereas, he contends, "any developed country would have awarded [him] with 
recognition of the highest honor." 
The Petitioner submitted background materials aboutl but he did not claim to have performed 
in a critical role for the entire hospital. Because his role was focused on the OB/GYN Service, he must 
show that that department or division has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that I IOB/GYN 
Service, in particular, has more than a local reputation. Without showing that the department or division 
has a distinguished reputation, more detailed discussion of the nature of his role within that department 
or division would serve no practical purpose in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
4 The Petitioner does not, on appeal,pursue an earlier claim that his work with the localOsectionofthe Venezuelan 
Red Cross also constituted a critical role. 
7 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's colleagues 
in Venezuela regard him as a skilled physician who has helped many patients, but much of the 
Petitioner's evidence indicates at most a degree ofrecognition within the State ore=J He had been 
in the United States for over seven years at the time of filing, but the record does not establish that the 
U.S. medical community has adopted his biopsychosocial evaluation. He satisfied two of the threshold 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but neither of those criteria includes any intrinsic requirement of, or 
reference to, acclaim or recognition. Rather, he judged the work of medical students and published 
the results of medical research, both activities which appear to be routine in academia rather than 
privileges reserved for the most acclaimed professionals in the field. While the Petitioner has shown 
himself to be an able and dedicated physician in Venezuela, and has found ways to contribute in the 
United States without a license to practice medicine, he has not shown that his work has had a 
widespread and lasting impact on his field, and he has not otherwise established the sustained national 
or international acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23414566 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and four subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the May 16, 2022, dismissal 
of the Petitioner's fourth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asse1ts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the 
proceeding. 
As we explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner did not 1) submit new evidence or state new facts 
or 2) identify any specific errors in our dismissal of his fourth appeal. 3 Instead, he repeated previous 
assertions from prior submissions which did not overcome our earlier conclusions. 
Rather than address our most recent dismissal, the Petitioner again asserts that he is eligible for the 
requested classification. 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our May 2022 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his 
motion to reopen because he has not provided documentary evidence of new facts related to that 
decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 As we explained, "a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief 
presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior appellate decision. The moving party 
must specify the factual and legal issues that were previously decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision or must 
show how a change in law materially affects our prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006)." 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22993456 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 21, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a radiologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
When the Petitioner filed the petition, she was employed as a clinical assistant professor a 
University! JSchool of Medicine, and an assi tant att n in h i ian at I I Hospitals, in 0-1 A nonimmigrant status. Subsequently, ___________ 
Center filed a nonimmigrant petition, approved in August 2022, again to classify her as an O-lA 
nonimmigrant. In May 2021, the Petitioner filed another immigrant petition on her own behalf, 
seeking classification as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, with a national 
interest waiver of the job offer requirement. The Director of the Nebraska Service Center approved 
that petition in February 2022. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met four of the criteria, pertaining to judging, contributions, 
scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets 
the criteria pertaining to membership in associations and published material about her. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of 
the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial 
evidence, we need not discuss the individual criteria in further detail. Instead, below, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility. 
Some of the appeal concerns individual threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The final merits 
determination, however, addresses the broader question of whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim in her field. Further 
discussion of the specific requirements of additional criteria would not directly affect the remaining 
issue of sustained national or international acclaim. 
Throughout the appeal, the Petitioner conflates the initial evidentiary criteria and the final merits 
determination, asserting that, by satisfying those initial criteria, "she has achieved national acclaim." 
For instance, she asserts on appeal that her "numerous publications and her status as First Author on 
most of these publications clearly indicate that she has risen to the top of her field and has achieved 
national acclaim." The Petitioner does not explain, on appeal, how either of these factors inherently 
convey or reflect sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner contends that "[aa] physician must be recognized as a true expert and leader on the topic 
in order to be First Author." But, by definition, every collaborative article has a first author. 
Depending on the method used to determine the order of author credits, the first author of a given 
article may have led the individual project or study that forms the basis for that article, but the 
comparison is necessarily limited to the co-authors of that single article; it does not reflect or imply 
any higher standing in the field overall. 
To support her assertions about first authorship, the Petitioner cites two previously submitted letters 
from two ofhermentorsJ of Health System and I of 
the !University of I Those letters, however, do not equate first authorship with 
broader acclaim or reco nition. simply acknowledged that the Petitioner was first author 
of their shared paper.,__ ___ stated that, as first author, the Petitioner "had a leading role in the 
research, writing, and conduct of the project." This assertion is considerably more limited in scope 
than the expansive proposition offered on appeal, that a high proportion of first author credits indicates 
national acclaim at the top of the field. 
It bears noting that other information in those letters indicate thatl landl I and 
writers of other letters in the record, each occupy positions considerably higher than the Petitioner, 
which is directly relevant when considering whether the Petitioner has reached the top of her field. I I has held leadership roles at prestigious universities, andl I served as I 
of the American Board of Nuclear Medicine and has "been annually selected as one of the I 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
3 
in America since 2005." The Petitioner asserted that her "numerous publications" also show her 
stature in the field, but she has not shown that the quantity of articles written is a reliable gauge of 
acclaim. Even then, whereas her own curriculum vitae showed 20 peer-reviewed articles at the time 
of filing,I I claimed 78 such articles, and I l"more than 250." These individuals 
have sincerely attested to the Petitioner's talent and dedication, but the Petitioner has not shown that 
her stature in the field is comparable to theirs. These individuals did not attest to the Petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim, instead offering more measured assertions that she "has 
made innumerable contributions to the field of nuclear medicine" and '"is clearly respected by her 
peers." Other letters in the record follow a similar pattern, praising specific achievements and offering 
general assertions such as stating the Petitioner's "research has been cited numerous researchers," 
without providing objective means of measuring the Petitioner's relative stature in the field. 
When considering the question of where the Petitioner stands in relation to others in the field, it is 
significant that her claimed prizes and awards are for fellows and residents in advanced stages of 
professional training, rather than for already-established experts in the field. The Petitioner may have 
achieved more than most in the earliest stages of her career, but she must establish sustained national 
or international acclaim in the field as a whole, rather than in the subset of the youngest or newest 
practitioners in that field. 
The Director had noted that the Petitioner's most-cited article had earned only 14 citations at the time 
of filing; her aggregate total number of citations was 85. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the 
Director "dismissed the impressive number of citations of [the Petitioner's] published work and 
mistakenly held that 'citations to one's published works does [sic] not equate to national or 
international acclaim.'" By disputing the Director's quoted language, the Petitioner essentially 
contends that citations do "equate to national or international acclaim." The Petitioner has not shown 
this to be so. 
The Petitioner cites Kazarian and the USCIS Policy Manual regarding the value of citations, but 
neither of those sources indicates that every cited author is nationally or internationally acclaimed. 
The USCIS Policy Manual indicates that citations "may be indicative of the significance of the 
person's contributions," and that the quantity of those citations is another relevant factor. 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In Kazarian, the Ninth Circuit 
stated that "other authors' citations (or a lack thereof) might be relevant to the final merits 
determination." Kazarian, 596 F.3dat 1121. These passages support, ratherthanrefote, the Director's 
conclusion that "citations to one's published works do[] not equate to national or international 
acclaim." Citations are one factor to be considered among many. 
The Petitioner cites no comparative figures to establish that she has accumulated an "impressive 
number of citations" relative to others in her field. Instead, the Petitioner focuses on one particular 
citation. The Petitioner states that one of her articles was "cited and discussed in the Clinical Practice 
Guidelines of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network" (NCCN), which "set the standard for the 
most appropriate clinical care across the United States and internationally." The record shows that an 
article by the Petitioner is one of 144 sources cited in the NCCN Guidelines Jo 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to show that the inclusion of her article among these 
sources "sets her apart from her peers as one of a small percentage of nuclear medicine physicians 
who has risen to the top of her field, as she is looked to as the leading national expert on the treatment 
4 
of this disease." The Petitioner has not established that the NCCN only cited the work of "leading 
national expert[ s ]" when compiling source material. 
We further note that the Guidelines, as submitted, show a publication date of September 2021, several 
months after the Petitioner filed her petition in May 2021. Therefore, even if this citation had the 
weight that the Petitioner contends, it still would not help to establish eligibility as of the filing date 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1), which requires a petitioner to meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing. 
Congress contemplated that individuals who qualify for this criterion will be able to show a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, which requires "extensive documentation" of recognition. The Petitioner 
has not met this burden. The record often lacks evidentiary support for the Petitioner's claims 
regarding the significance of various achievements and events. Forinstancel I asserted that 
the Petitioner's "outstanding achievements" resulted in her selection as a committee member for the 
Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging (SNMMI), but the record contains no 
contemporaneous documentation relating to the nomination and selection of the Petitioner or the more 
than 20 other members of that committee. The SNMMI's bylaws identify who may nominate 
committee members but do not specify minimum requirements for such memberships. Likewise, the 
Petitioner asserts that her recognition is evident from having been "invited to present at prestigious 
national conferences," but she cites no record exhibits to show that these invitations resulted from 
sustained national or international acclaimratherthan from lesser considerations such as subject matter 
expertise, preexisting relationships with conference organizers, or open calls for submissions. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has established her involvement in peer review of manuscripts submitted for 
publication in scholarly journals, but she has not met her burden of proof to support her claim that 
"peer review of prominent, national and international medical journals is similar to judging a national 
competition for top athletes." The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that the process for 
selecting peer reviewers, at the journals where she has conducted such review, is comparable to the 
process for selecting judges for national athletic competitions, and she has not rebutted the Director's 
core determination that "[p]Jeer review is routine in the field; not every peer reviewer enjoys sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner has conducted research at prestigious institutions, and in this way she has contributed 
to her field, but the Petitioner has not shown that, in doing so, she has attained sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner contends that her acclaim is evident from publicity that her work 
has received, but the submitted articles do not single her out for notice or explain how the Petitioner's 
work is of particular significance; they do little more than summarize the petitioner's articles. One of 
these articles, in Medpage Today, is labeled as having been "created ... on behalf of an advertiser." 
The Petitioner, who bears the burden of proof, has not established or explained how articles of this 
kind are tantamount to sustained national acclaim, or how they show that the Petitioner's work has 
attracted an unusually high level of interest in the field, such that she derived sustained national 
acclaim from that research as she asserts. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to 
establish eligibility for the classification she seeks. 
5 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USC IS) has approved two 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior 
approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based 
on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are 
denied after USCIS approves prior nonimrnigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 
293 F. Supp. 2d25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48F. Supp. 2d22(D.D.C. 1999); 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a collli of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration 
petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim required by section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Rather, 
the record indicates that the Petitioner has trained at prestigious institutions, where she has had the 
opportunity to participate in influential research, but the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to 
show that the recognition from her involvement in that research has resulted in sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23173109 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as a noncitizen of "extraordinary ability." This first­
preference, employment-based category contains immigrant visas for noncitizens who demonstrate 
extraordinary ability "in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics." Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the self-petition . The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that practicing law falls under one of the statutory fields. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that her legal expertise relates to "business." 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance 
of evidence . Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with 
the following analysis. 
I. NONCITIZENS OF EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY 
Self-petitioners in this visa category must demonstrate their extraordinary ability by "sustained national 
or international acclaim" and "extensive documentation" of recognized achievements in their relevant 
fields of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. Petitioners must also seek to enter the country 
to work in their fields, and their entries must "substantially benefit prospectively the United States." 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(ii), (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those noncitizens in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Petitioners can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements through receipts of major, internationally recognized 
awards. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). Otherwise, they must meet at least three of ten regulatory criteria. See 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Petitioners may submit comparable evidence if they demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) do not readily apply to their occupations. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) . 
If petitioners meet these preliminary requirements, we then consider the totality of their materials in a 
final merits determination, assessing whether the records show sustained national or international 
acclaim and identify the petitioners as among the small percentage at the very top of their fields. See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part analysis to 
determine extraordinary ability). 
II. THE REQUIRED FIELDS 
On the Form I-140, the Petitioner identified her proposed job title as "International Legal Counsel." 
She stated that she would provide legal opinions to the international operations department of an online I company. 
The Director found that "[t]he petitioner has not established that the practice oflaw falls within the 
purview of 'the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics."' See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act. The Director noted that, for immigration purposes, the term "profession" includes "lawyers," 
see section 101(a)(32) of the Act, and that Congress expressly created immigrant visas for 
"professionals" in other categories. See sections 203(b )(2)(A), (3)(A)(ii) of the Act. If Congress 
includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another of the same Act, 
adjudicators presume that Congress intentionally excluded the language from the other section. INS 
v. Cardozo-Fonseca, 480 U.S. 421,433 (1987) (citation omitted). As section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of Act 
does not expressly include professionals, the Director found that Congress did not intend them to 
qualify as noncitizens of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner's occupation as a lawyer, however, does not automatically bar her classification as a 
noncitizen of extraordinary ability. Lawyers qualify for the requested category if their proposed work 
involves one of the designated statutory fields. Immigration and Naturalization Serv. Gen. Counsel 
Op. No. 95-3, 1995 WL 1796310 (Jan. 20, 1995). 
The record indicates the Petitioner's proposed employment in a business-related role. In a letter 
supporting the petition, she states the filing's basis as "her extraordinary business and academic 
achievements in intellectual property protection, especially in the field of e-commerce." Also, the 
authors of most of the supporting letters in the petition are managers of online I businesses, and 
published articles about the Petitioner focus on her work for online businesses. Thus, consistent with 
section 203(b )( 1 )(A )(i) of the Act, a preponderance of evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's proposed 
employment in the field of business. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision. 
The Director did not determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the preliminary, regulatory criteria for 
the requested immigrant visa category. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will therefore remand 
the matter. If the Director finds the Petitioner eligible under the regulatory requirements, the Director 
should consider whether the evidence demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim and 
places the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. 
2 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22727494 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an actor, comedian, and artist in Colombia. He intends to 
continue working in the United States in the field of performing arts. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to published materials in 
professional publications or major media, judging the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization, and artistic display. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv) and (vii). We will not disturb 
the Director's determinations with respect to these criteria. 1 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria related to membership 
in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, and original contributions of major significance 
in his field, high salary, and commercial success. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (ix) and (x). 
2 
In this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very 
high standard. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misapplied the Kazarian analysis 
and discounted extensive evidence submitted pertaining to his sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner first asserts that the Director erred in conducting a multi-part analysis and final merits 
determination, and claims that the Director misapplied the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian 
by applying additional ultra vires evidentiary requirements. Specifically, the Petitioner maintains that 
because he has satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
should qualify for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Petitioner is mistaken 
in his reading of Kazarian, which does in fact set forth the multi-part analysis referenced above, in 
which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first meets the initial evidence requirements of 
a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Kazarian decision does not state that meeting three of these criteria 
establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, Kazarian discusses a two-part review where the 
evidence is first counted and then, if fulfilling the initial evidence requirements, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination to determine whether a given petitioner is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor consistent with the statute and 
regulations for this restrictive classification. The Petitioner, therefore, has not established that the 
Director misapplied Kazarian or erred in proceeding to a final merits determination. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not properly consider all of the evidence submitted and 
improperly disregarded pieces ofrelevant documentary evidence. Upon de novo review, we agree with 
the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety 
and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence relating to seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final 
merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director 
determined the Petitioner had satisfied, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. The 
Director's final merits analysis failed to consider the totality of the material provided in support of the 
petition. The record includes multiple expert opinion letters from actors, producers, and directors as 
well as performing arts professionals in Colombia that address the Petitioner's standing in the field 
and his original theatrical contributions, as well as evidence related to his professional memberships, 
accolades received, commercial success, and high remuneration. Because the Director did not 
consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. 2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that during a final merits 
determination, USCTS officers should evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the 
immigrant classification). 
3 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22643264 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher in the field of I I biology, focusing specifically in the area 
biology. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
2 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria; specifically, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. As the 
Petitioner claims no other criterion, beyond those discussed herein, we consider the remaining 
eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to be waived. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has made major contributions in the field of microbiology,2 
noting that his research has "pushed researchers understanding" of the effects ofl I and 
on human health as well as the characteristics of various diseases and their 
effect on human health. The Petitioner contends that the publication of his research in reputable 
journals, along with his citation history and letters of recommendation, establishes that he meets this 
criterion. 3 
In his brief, the Petitioner claims that his publication in top journals demonstrates that experts in his 
field find his work to be majorly significant. Specifically, the Petitioner points to the publication of 
his articles in Journal of Nutrition, Acta Obstrecia et Gynecologica Scandinavica, Environmental 
Health Perspectives, Epigenetics, Journal of Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, 
Antioxidants and Redox Signaling, Emerging I11fectious Diseases, and Journal of I11fectious Diseases. 
However, the Petitioner has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked or popular 
journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an original 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 We note that on appeal, the Petitioner refers to his field as In supp01t of the petition, however, the Petitioner 
claimed to be a researcher in the field of biology. The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
3 The Petitioner also opines that the Director erred in his decision by incorrectly requiring major contributions "to the field" 
rather than "in the field" because the regulations do not require a significant important contribution related to the entire 
field. However. we do not find support for the Petitioner's contention regarding the difference in meaning between these 
phrases and we note that USCIS policy advises adjudicators to determine "whether the person's original contributions are 
of major significance to the field." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. We therefore conclude that the 
Director did not err in his decision. 
3 
contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor 
reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or the impact of 
research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates 
a contribution of major significance. Here, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The Petitioner contends that his published articles had been cited 958 times at the time of filing. The 
Petitioner did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations represents contributions of 
major significance in the field. As this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field, he bears the burden to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance. Aggregate citation figures tend to reflect 
a petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying which research the field considers to 
be majorly significant. 
We note the Petitioner's reference to our non-precedent decision concerning a case where citations to 
works co-authored by a petitioner were deemed sufficient to demonstrate original contributions of major 
significance. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and 
may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner did not submit a copy of the referenced case, nor did it 
demonstrate that the facts of that case are analogous to the matter currently before us. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that his 
three highest cited articles received 160 (Emerging Infectious Diseases), 135 (Journal of lnfectious 
Diseases), and 64 (Environmental Health Perspectives) citations, respectively.4 Once again, this 
criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest 
in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the 
citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For 
example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations 
are indicative that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not 
establish that his citation numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions 
in the field. 5 
4 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
In addition to the Google Scholar citation evidence, the record contains evidence relating to the 
"impact factors" of the journals that published the Petitioner's papers. That a publication bears a high 
ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, 
demonstrate the influence of any particular author within the field or how an author's research has had 
an impact within the field. Although a journal's ranking and impact factor can provide an 
approximation of the prestige of the journal, the ranking does not demonstrate the major significance 
of every article published in that journal. The Petitioner must establish that the findings in his articles 
have affected the I I biology field at a level indicative of original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also argues that he submitted multiple articles that have been cited at a rate exceeding 
that at which papers published by otherl lbiology experts have been cited, and asserts that 
each article therefore constitutes an original scholarly contribution of major significance. In support 
of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted data about the rate of citation to his individual papers from 
several third-party sources. The first set of data the Petitioner refers to is the Altmetric Attention 
Score. The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the attention score assigned by Altmetric to eight 
of his papers, indicating that five of these papers were "in the top 25% of all research outputs scored 
by Altmetrics," and the remaining three papers received good or above average attention scores. On 
review of this evidence, it appears that these scores are calculated based on online attention derived 
from social media and mainstream news media. Altmetric's website states as follows: 
Altmetrics are metrics and qualitative data that are complementary to traditional, 
citation-based metrics. They can include (but are not limited to) peer reviews on 
Faculty of 1000, citations on Wikipedia and in public policy documents, discussions 
on research biogs, mainstream media coverage, bookmarks on reference managers like 
Mendeley, and mentions on social networks such as Twitter. 
Sourced from the Web, altmetrics can tell you a lot about how often journal articles 
and other scholarly outputs like datasets are discussed and used around the world. 6 
According to its website, excerpts of which are submitted by the Petitioner on appeal, the attention 
scores reflected in the Altmetric data provided by the Petitioner are garnered by mentions in various 
social media platforms such as news articles, biogs, Wikipedia, and Twitter. On appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that the Director erroneously discounted the Altmetric attention scores because they were 
derived in part from Wikipedia sources. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that 
Wikipedia is not the sole source used for score compilation, it nevertheless is highlighted as a 
significant source of data. As mentioned in the Director's decision, there are no assurances about the 
reliability of the content from Wikipedia, an open, user-edited internet site. 7 See Lamilem Badasa v. 
Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
6 See https://www.altmetric.com/about-altmetrics/what-are-altmetrics/ (last visited Oct. 25, 2022). 
7 Online content from Wikipedia is subject to the following general disclaimer, "WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE 
OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of 
individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows 
anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been 
reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable infonnation. That is not 
5 
We further note that Altmetric's website states that "[i]t is important to bear in mind that metrics 
(including citation-based metrics) are merely indicators-they can point to interesting spikes in different 
types of attention, etc. but are not themselves evidence of such."8 Moreover, "[t]here are a number of 
limitations to the use of altmetrics," "altmetrics are a complement to, not a replacement for, things like 
informed peer review and citation-based metrics," "[a]nyone with enough time on their hands can 
artificially inflate the altmetrics for their research," and "[u]ntil we know more, use and interpret 
altmetrics carefolly."9 While the Petitioner asserts that the Altmetric data demonstrates that his articles 
constitute original contributions of major significance, he does not explain or demonstrate that even 
very high attention in social media and mainstream news media is indicative of the subject research 
being of major significance to other scientists conducting! I biology research. 
The Petitioner also submitted statistical analyses from Dimensions, indicating that some of his articles 
have received "more attention than normal," and others are "extremely highly cited," earning between 
8.16 and 24 times more citations than average. These figures can be misleading, because the range of 
citations is broad; the most-cited articles can receive hundreds or thousands of citations, while others 
are cited once or not at all. Above average is not necessarily synonymous with the top of the field. 
Although this information provides some context for the citation figures submitted, the record still 
lacks independent, objective evidence to explain how the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance such that his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that he presented testimonials attesting to his majorly significant 
contributions. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their 
publications in journals, and point to the citations of his work by others. Although they reflect the 
novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance and how their im act on the field rises to the level of major significance 
required by this criterion.1° For instance, commented on the Petitioner's research 
conducted at the which focused on the prevalence of different 
I I infections, development of I methods for easy identification for identification of 
different! I species, and immunity tol According tol I the Petitioner's 
work in this area contributed to the limitation of parasitic infection in the United States, and he notes 
that the Petitioner developed a I characterization ofl I an anerobic 
parasite." HoweverJ I did not describe how the Petitioner has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarly, whilel !concluded that the Petitioner's work on this project "helped define 
the scope of the prevalence of this pathogen, so a firm plan of action for addressing it could be 
developed," he did not supplement his letter with specific examples showing how the Petitioner 
impacted the field in a significant way. 
to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However, 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article may recently 
have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in 
the relevant fields." (Emphasis in original). See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer (last visited 
Oct. 25, 2022). 
8 See https://www.altmetric.com/about-altmetrics/what-are-altmetrics/ (last visited Oct. 25, 2022). 
9 See id. 
10 While we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
commented on the Petitioner's work pertaining to the effects of _____ __ exposure and itsl I effects on humans, noting that the Petitioner found that humans 
exposed tol I may be more likely to develop cancer. Although she states that his findings had 
been published in Environmental Health Perspectives and that she cited his findings in one of her 
articles,! I does not explain why she cited to this research or how it affected her research.□ I I also focused on the prestige of the journals in which the Petitioner's work has been published, 
but she did not explain how his research constitutes an original contribution of major significance to 
other researchers in the field. 
Similarly, stated that she is familiar with the Petitioner's work in the field of 1 7 related toxicity and __ __.modification resulting from I exposure, and referenced 
the Petitioner's articles on these subjects that were published in the scientific journals Environmental 
Health Perspectives and Metallomics. However, she did not explain how the Petitioner's published 
findings affected her own research. In addition, in discussing the significance of these contributions, 
the letter refers to the prestige of the journals in which the Petitioner's work has been published. But 
we will not assume that all papers published in prestigious scientific journals have impact or influence 
on their respective fields, andl I does not explain how attention to the Petitioner's research 
in scientific journals reflects a significant contribution to the field of I biology. 
Furthermore, some of the letters speculate on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
propose that he will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. For example, I 
I I commented on the Petitioner's research on deficiency and supplementation during 
pregnancy. According to I I the Petitioner's finding that extended I I in I I women who participated in his study led to improved! I and immune function in 
infants, and showed the benefits of exclusively I and its potential to lower health care 
costs inl I and other developing countries. She did not, however, elaborate and explain if 
the research has ever been applied in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.12 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. 
The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
12 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work reflects the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22726984 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur and researcher in the field of cybersecurity, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur and researcher who is currently working in the United States in the 
field of cybersecurity on his 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria, published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
Petitioner does not pursue his initial claim that he meets the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that 
meets this criterion. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not further address it in this 
decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the plain language requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
2 
the material. 1 The record contains several articles pertaining to the Petitioner. Articles published in 
Dark Horse, Toms Guide, SC Magazine, SP AMfighter News, and The Register mention the Petitioner 
and his role as co-founder and researcher for a cyber security intelligence company, and quote 
him regarding vulnerabilities inl I products and a tool that I I was producing to combat 
such threats. The Petitioner also submits other articles, including a 2009 article from Dark Reading 
identifying the Petitioner as a researcher with I and 2011 articles published in Global Security 
Magazine and Info Security Magazine that identify the Petitioner as a researcher witH I These 
articles also briefly quote the Petitioner regarding the projects each of his respective employers were 
undertaking at the time. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that the aforementioned articles reflect published 
material about him relating to his work. For example, the articles appearing in Toms Guide and SC 
Magazine articles quote the Petitioner re ardin vulnerabilities discovered in the _____ 
produced by companies such as and The Info Security Magazine 
article quotes the Petitioner regarding the rise of attacks a ainst banks and other 
institutions. The Global Security Magazine article, entitled I interviews the Petitioner but focuses primarily about the differences between 
I !attacks versus ______ attacks, rather than material about him. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the articles are explicitly about him and his work. Although we 
acknowledge that several articles consist of interviews of the Petitioner, and identify him and his 
employer, they do not include details about his career history or accomplishments. ile the Petitioner 
is briefly interviewed in each article in his capacity as researcher for I and I and 
discusses the companies' efforts to combat I I and vulnerabilities in __ products, the 
submitted documentation does not discuss the merits of the Petitioner's work, his standing in the field, 
any significant impact that his work has had on the field, or any other information so as to be considered 
published material about the Petitioner as required by this criterion. The submitted articles are about the 
threat of I and the vulnerabilities and defects inl I products. The published material itself 
is not about the Petitioner. The regulation requires that the published material be "about the alien" and 
"relating to the alien's work in the field." It is insufficient that the Petitioner be mentioned within 
published material appearing in one of the three regulatory required publication types. The inclusion of 
the phrase "about the alien" is not superfluous and, thus, it must have some meaning. Silverman v. 
Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 
F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). According to the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the 
relevant criterion in this matter, the published material must be both about the Petitioner and relating to 
his work in the field. 
Although he is referenced, the articles are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this 
regulatory criterion. Here, again, the Petitioner provided articles only about his work instead of articles 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
about him relating to his work. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment , and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. 2 For a critical 
role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment 's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 3 
The Petitioner claimed that he perfonned in a leading or critical role for two companies, I and I I In his decision, the Director detennined that the Petitioner had not established that these 
companies enjoyed a distinguished reputation as required by this criteria. 4 On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director's determination was erroneous . 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading role for The record contains a letter 
froml II I chief executive officer, who states tha is "a cybersecurity compa
that offers al I protection platfonn agains _____ attacks." According to the Pet the Petitioner co-founded ! I in Israel in 2014 and served as its vice president of 
research from 2014-2017 before assuming the same role in the United States for I 
which was founded in 2015. I !indicates that the Petitioner initially managed thel I 
research team before ultimately managing the day-to-day operations of this team and the which 
team. Upon review, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he performed in a leading 
role for 
The Petitioner, however, has not established that I I has a distinguished reputation, with 
"distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction , or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person."5 In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted documentation 
pertaining to reco nition received byl I The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that 
won th Award in 2016, 2017, and 2018, an award the Petitioner claims highlights 
"the most startups from Asia, Europe and the Americas ." The Petitioner also submitted 
evidence demonstrating that I I was listed among the top three vendors in I I 2018 
Group Test. According to the Petitioner, I I "is 
recognized global1y as the most trusted source for independent, fact-based c bersecurity guidance." 
The Petitioner also documented ! l naming tol 201 List as among I lnoting that is the top technology news and 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
3 See id. 
4 The Director did not specifically render a determination regarding whether the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical 
role for each of these organizations . 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
4 
infonnation source for solution providers, IT channel partners, and value-added resellers (V ARs)." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted documentation o 2019 19 acquisition an American 
multinational company described as "a leading provider o _____ security." 
Although the Petitioner presented evidence of receipt of various awards which denote 
!recognition in its field, he did not sufficientl y demonstrate their significance or relevance . 
Nor did he submit sufficient evidence portraying ! ! standing in the field. The Petitioner did not 
include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the organization, how its reputation 
compares to similar organizations, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to others, signifying 
a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted information aboutl I subsequent acquisition by in 2019 
from its website, but this information is not sufficient to demonstrate thatl now has a 
distinguished reputation in the cybersecurity field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) need not rely on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, affd 
317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). While we note the submission of key data for stock from 
www.forbes.com, this is simply a general overview of corporate and financial data and does not 
demonstrate how this organization has a distinguished reputation . There is insufficient corroborating 
evidence ofl l orl I standing in the field to establish that they are recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation "marked by eminence, distinction or excellence." 
The Petitioner also contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role forl as a I 
researcher and team lead from 2010-2012. A letter froml co-founder and 
chief technology officer, describes the company as "a cyber security company delivering application 
and data security products," and discusses the Petitioner's role as a team lead for research 
and the results he achieved for the company while employed in that position. The record demonstrates 
that the Petitioner performed in a critical role for The Petitioner, however, has not 
established that has a distinguished reputation . 
The Director determined that the evidence of awards received by I I was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the company was an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of the company's receipt of several awards, such as th A ward 
for Best I Solution from I in 2017 the Award in Best 
Solution at the Awards in 2017 for its and the 
Award Testing Award b an independent division of 
in 2016. The Petitioner also submitted an independent analysis of the market 
conducted by I demonstrating that !"provides a number of advanced security 
technologies and flexible deployment models to protect customers' Web applications against the 
broadest range of threats." 
As with I I awards, discussed above, the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate the 
significance or relevance of I awards. While the awards demonstrate thatl I garnered 
recognition in its field, the Petitioner did not include evidence showing the general field's view of the 
company, how its reputation compares to similar organizations, or how its products and processes 
relate to other companies, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
5 
Moreover, while the Petitioner relies on the analysis of the market, which 
resulted inl I receipt of the 2014 Leadership Award after a detennination that I I achieved a leadership position in the market in 2013, these accolades do not 
demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence portraying ! I standing in 
the field, nor did it objectively demonstrate thatl I has a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USC IS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
6 
Although the Petitioner has experience in the field of cybersecurity, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19131887 
Appeal of Decision Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sailing instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested classification. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two letters of recommendation previously submitted and a letter 
dated April 14, 2021, after the filing of the initial petition, offering the Petitioner employment as a 
head coach with a yacht club. Notably, the Petitioner did not provide a statement regarding the basis 
for the appeal, as instructed in Part 3 of Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, either in Part 7, 
Additional Information, of the form, or in a separate statement. 
Regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) state, in pertinent part, "An officer to whom an appeal is taken 
shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
The Petitioner here has not specifically identified erroneous conclusions of law or statements of fact 
in the decision notice. He does not articulate additional grounds of eligibility that the Director did not 
address nor did he contest the Director's decision. We are summarily dismissing the appeal because 
it does not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the unfavorable 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 20142511 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies for the requested classification . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in I information science and engineering from the University of 
in August 2018. At the time of filing, the Petitioner held the position of principal research engineer and 
chief executive officer atl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
of the work of others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of 
scholarly articles, and we agree. Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has also 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. While we do not find all the 
Petitioner's assertions to be persuasive, we do agree that the submitted evidence, including reference 
letters which clearly explain how his contributions are of major significance and their impact on both the 
field and the authors' own work, are sufficient to meet the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. However, 
granting the third initial criterion does not, by itself, establish eligibility for the requested classification. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we are withdrawing the 
Director's decision and remanding the matter so that the Director may conduct a final merits 
determination consistent with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22679019 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief technology officer (CTO), seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a technical trainer, project manager, systems architect, and entrepreneur, claims to be 
multidisciplinary expert in the fields of science, business, and education. He currently serves as the 
chief executive officer and CTO for several companies, and seeks to continue working in his field of 
expertise in the United States as CTO for I in I New Jersey. As he 
has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence pertaining to seven of the ten criteria, including evidence of awards 
he received, published materials, service as a judge or juror, authorship of scholarly articles, original 
contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii)-(vi), (viii)-(ix) . The Director determined that he satisfied one criterion for leading 
or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director misclassified his field of extraordinary eligibility, 
and that the misclassification resulted in an erroneous determination that he only met one of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He further asserts that he meets the remaining six criteria as originally 
claimed, and submits additional evidence in support of this assertion. 
The Petitioner provided a supporting cover letter with the initial filing in which he described his 
employment background and work experience, and broadly stated that he possessed extraordinary 
ability in the fields of science, business, and education. In Part 6 of the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition 
for Alien Worker (Form 1-140), the Petitioner listed his job title as "CHIEF TECHNOLOGY 
OFFICER (CTO)," and described his position as "handling both executive and technical decisions for 
the company & appointing executive managers." The Petitioner emphasized his multidisciplinary 
experience and noted that his areas of expertise included artificial intelligence, machine learning, web 
application development, embedded systems, robotics, and big data analytics. The Petitioner also 
expressed his intent to continue working in the United States as a CTO and, while no offer of 
employment is required for the requested classification, submitted a letter froml I 
2 
President of confirming the company's offer of employment to the 
Petitioner for the position of CTO at its offices in New Jersey. 
The Petitioner discussed his experience and expertise, and broadly claimed to qualify as an individual 
of extraordinary ability in the fields of science, business, and education. However, none of the 
evidence he submitted in support of the petition identifies with any specificity his area of extraordinary 
ability. Although the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), he did not seek clarification of the 
Petitioner's area of extraordinary ability. Instead, the Director concluded in the RFE that the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor was electrical engineering and materials science, and requested evidence 
in support of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability in that field. 1 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner argued that the Director's conclusions regarding his field of 
endeavor and work intentions were incorrect, and requested that the Director evaluate his eligibility 
as a CTO based on the claims outlined in his initial supporting documentation. Specifically, while the 
Petitioner acknowledged that he did in fact possess expertise in electrical engineering and materials 
science, 2 he reaffirmed that his field of endeavor was in fact multidisciplinary, and requested that the 
Director evaluate his eligibility as a CTO in multidisciplinary fields as originally claimed. 3 
In dismissing the appeal, the Director, citing to Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. 
Comm. 1998), concluded that the Petitioner's assertions regarding the nature of his field of endeavor 
in response to the RFE constituted a material change to the petition, noting that a petitioner may not 
make material changes to a petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. The Director concluded that the Petitioner's area of expertise was electrical engineering 
and materials science, and evaluated the Petitioner's evidence as it pertained to extraordinary ability 
in that particular field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again contests the Director's determination regarding his expertise and field 
of endeavor, and maintains that his response to the RFE contained no material change to the petition. 
Specifically, the Petitioner points out that his extraordinary ability in the fields of science, business, 
and education, as well as his intent to continue working as a CTO in the United States, was clearly 
articulated in both the Form I-140 and in his initial supporting documents. The Petitioner argues that 
the Director's unilateral conclusion that his field of endeavor was electrical engineering and materials 
science, despite his objections in response to the RFE, was erroneous. 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion. The documents submitted in support of the 
petition demonstrate that the Petitioner claimed extraordinary ability as a multidisciplinary expert in 
the fields of science, business, and education at the time of filing. Therefore, the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner's articulation of such claims in response to the RFE constituted a 
material change to the petition is misplaced. Here, the Director did not accurately identify or explain 
1 Specifically, the Director stated, "The Petitioner intends to work as an electrical engineer and material science expert for 
electronic devices." 
2 In reviewing the Petitioner's letter of support, he stated on page 5 that "I am considered a person of extraordinary ability 
in the field of electrical engineering and material science for electronic devices." 
3 In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated, "I sincerely request the immigration officer not to consider 'electrical engineer 
and material science expe1i for electronic devices' as my only area of expertise and intended area of work because I am 
also a Technical Educator, CEO, CTO, Project manager, System Architect and Entrepreneur." 
3 
the deficiencies in the evidence as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), 4 but instead concluded that 
the Petitioner's field of endeavor was exclusively limited to electrical engineering and materials 
science, despite the Petitioner's objections and assertions to the contrary. 
Therefore, we are remanding the matter for the Director to seek further information and clarification 
of the Petitioner's area of extraordinary ability, as he cannot proceed with an assessment of the 
Petitioner's eligibility within the context of Kazarian 's two-step analysis until the Petitioner conveys 
a meaningful understanding of his area of extraordinary ability. The Director may issue an RFE 
requesting additional evidence addressing this critical element. Once the Petitioner provides the 
necessary clarification about extraordinary ability and his field of endeavor, the Director shall then 
analyze the supporting evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has submitted the required initial 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria and, 
if met, shall assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter is remanded for further 
consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent with the above analysis. 
4 See also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678750 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a solution director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is a world-renowned expert in developing and designing computer 
algorithms inl I supply chain manufacturing processes." In the ast the Petitioner has 
worked as an advisory consultant for a a business IT lead for a manager of 
technology consulting advisory services for and a senior product manager for I I Since 2018, the Petitioner has worked as a solution director for I I in I I New Jersey. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pe1iaining to judging the work of 
others and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion 
pertaining to original contributions of major significance. The Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding authorship of scholarly articles, and therefore he has waived appeal 
on that issue. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one criterion, relating to 
participation as a judge of the work of others. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulvedav. US. Att '.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them onappealto theAAO). 
2 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded thatthe Petitioner's work has been lucrative for his employers 
and "useful to the [ client] companies," but that the Petitioner had not shown "the major significance of 
the products or the widespread impact that the products have had on the field as a whole." 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes from previously submitted letters and asserts that he has met his burden 
of proof. We will discuss examples of the submitted evidence below. 
The Petitioner devoted a substantial portion of his initial statement to this criterion, mostly relating to his 
"Original Scientific contributions in manufacturing engineering and supply chain automation for I I and medical device and diagnostic business." The Petitioner also submitted thousands of 
pages of technical documentation. This evidence shows the work that the Petitioner has performed, but 
such documentation is not evidence of its own significance. The Petitioner asserted that he developed 
several projects that contributed td "great commercial success,"but the regulatory standard 
requires evidence of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not established that "great 
commercial success" for his employer amounts to major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters fro ml I officials and others. Many of these letters, like 1he 
Petitioner's own statement, provide technical details about specific projects and assert that the Petitioner's 
work has major significance, without explaining how his contributions benefit the field as a whole, ra1her 
than individual employers or customers. 
For example, a vice president a who previously worked with the Petitioner at and stated that the Petitioner's work at l"will help to transform 
I !companies to adopt Smart Manufacturing, Adaptive Plant and Digital Twins. This 
solution will have revolutionary impact [ on thel I I industry" and "will help the I industry to become resilient to any disruption." However, as phrased it appears that 1hese 
products are still under development, and the letter discusses the potential future impactofthe Petitioner's 
work rather than showing that such work is already a contribution of major significance. 
A director ofl I stated that the Petitioner developed a that "helps 
companies to deal with constantly changing prices of commodities have a real impact on bottom line [sic] 
and shift Global manufacturing and procurement to favorable markets." The same individual states that 
the Petitioner's "work are [sic] beingusedasreferencetemplate [sic] for supply chain integration." These 
assertions do not indicate the extent to which the Petitioner's products are used in the field, or the 
significance of their impact. 
Atthe outset, we note some aspects that call into question some of the letters submitted. Where an opinion 
is in any way questionable, we may reject or give less weight to that evidence. See Matter of Caron 
International, 19I&NDec. 791 (Comm'r 1988). 
Letters attributed to different people contain identical wording. For example, two letters attributed to 
current or former officials at I contain the following nearly-identical passages (note: 
grammatical errors and unnecessary capitalizations have not been conected): 
3 
[The Petitioner] has performed 
exceptionally well during his tenure of 
work in Product Development and 
clinical trial team. He has worked in 3 
projects as follows: 
1. Stability Study: 
stability study and continuous 
validation and verification process is 
very critical and complex. The 
slightest variation of any stability 
parameter may have adverse impact on 
patient's life. He played a very critical 
role as subject matter expe1i and 
crafted all technical specification and 
validation scripts to ensures hundred 
percent compliance and accountability 
as per Q1A(R2) Stability Testing of 
N ew _____ and Products. 
The Petitioner's knowledge 
management 
and management helped in 
integration stability study with 
downstream logistics Supply chain 
processes. [The Petitioner's] contribution was 
phenomenal during his tenure of work in 
Product Development and clinical trial 
team. He has worked and already in 3 
projects as follows: 
1. Stability Study: 
stability study and continues validation 
and verification process is very critical 
and complex. The slightest variation of 
any stability parameter may have direct 
impact on patient. He played a very 
critical role as subject matter expert and 
crafted all technical specs and validation 
scripts to ensures hundred percent 
compliance and accountability as per 
Q1A(R2) Stability Testing of New I I and Products. [The 
Petitioner's] knowledge I I I management and I 
management helped in integration 
stability studywith downstream logistics 
Supply chain processes. 
Two other letters attributed to current or former officials of (Clinical Diagnostics are, for the most 
part, nearly identical to one another. 2 The nearly identical language in the letters "suggests that the letters 
were all prepared by the same person and calls into question the persuasive value of the letters' 
content." SeeHamalv. U.S. Dep 'to/Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 
2021).3 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown his contributions to 
be significant beyond his employers and their clients. The Director requested"[ o ]bjective, documentary 
evidence ofthe [Petitioner]'s contribution to the field." 
In response, the Petitioner stated that "each of the letters provided by [the Petitioner] went into great and 
specific detail about his contributions and how they improved the chances of wastage of expensive I lrawmaterials that was [sic] instrumental in providing Ito the patients at a 
2 The letters are not only identical with regard to technical details but even in statements such as "Beyond that, as an ex­
colleague, I have to say that his senseofhumor and good nature make long nights and tough deadlines much easier." 
3 Another shared characteristic of many of the letters is an unusually high number of grammatical errors and anomalous 
capitalizations, suchasthose seen in the examples quoted above. 
4 
reasonable cost." The letters indicate that the Petitioner made useful contributions relating to the I I supply chain, but in the absence of other documentation he has not shown the major 
significance of those contributions. 
New letters, from some of the same individuals who signed earlier letters, include the assertion that the 
Petitioner optimized supply chain processes in a way that reduced waste and saved clients millions of 
dollars. While the letters and accompanying documents provide some technical details, they lack context 
to show that the Petitioner's efforts have been not only useful for clients and profitable for his employers, 
but of major significance in the field. An official ofl I asserts that the Petitioner's work "is a gift 
to the whole industry" that have "impacted the industry at large," but the record does not show that the 
Petitioner's work has "provoked widespread commentary" within the industry. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 appendix,https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
substantiate claims of this nature. 
In addition to new letters, the Petitioner cited contracts and licenses as "objective and documentary 
evidence thatthe solutions developed by [ the Petitioner] are original contribution[ s] of major significance 
in the field." Those documents show that the Petitioner's work has been of use to customers, but the 
Petitioner has not established that such licenses and contracts are only seen in thel I industry 
with respect to original contributions of major significance. Letters indicate that some of the Petitioner's 
work is now proprietary for individual clients, which is not readily consistent with claims that his work 
has resulted in industry-wide improvements or savings. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has performed work for high-profile clients, but the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to establish that his original contributions on behalf of those clients are of 
major significance in the field,recognized beyond those whohavetaught, employed, or worked with him. 
The Petitioner has described his work in dense technical detail, but implementation of his work, even by 
major manufacturers, does not inherently indicate major significance; the Petitioner has not established 
that his contributions to the pharmaceutical industry have major significance. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director concluded, without further comment, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. As 
explained below, we disagree. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
Second, we determine whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which 
the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. The relative size or 
longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered 
5 
together with other infonnation to determine whether a distinguished reputation exists. Merriam-
Webster' s online dictionary defines distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence 
or befitting an eminent person.4 Id. 
The Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion through "Speaker Engagements and Invitations as [an] 
Expert," and through his work for his current employer. The speaking engagements described in the 
record were one-time engagements, such as a lecture at a "department technical fest" at the I Institute 
of Engineering Science and Technology and a monthly meeting of a local chapter of the Project 
Management Institute. The Petitioner did not establish that these short-term guest engagements amounted 
to leading or critical roles for the hosting organizations. Individual events such as conventions are not, 
themselves, organizations or establishments. 
Regarding his work for his employer, the Petitioner stated that his "important and indispensable" work as 
architect ofl I roducts "has directly impacted! I [sic] revenue growth by 8%." 
Company officials attested to the Petitioner's critical role with the company. 
But the Petitioner has notestablishedl ldistinguished reputation. The company's chief executive 
officer stated: "Our innovation has been recognized by respected external analysts such as I I who 
named us a I lin 2019. We have also been featured as a thought 
leader in Silicon Review and Manufacturing Technology Insights magazine." 
The Petitioner submitted a report froml I entitled _______________ 
______ The report names I as one of "four vendors [that] offer a diverse range of 
value propositions that make impacts across different industries and domains across the supply chain." 
Every page of the printout is marked: "This research note is restricted to the personal use of" I 
chief executive officer. These proprietary markings appear to indicate that the report is not widely 
circulated or available to the public. The Petitioner has not demonstrated thatl I inclusion in this 
report indicates a distinguished reputation. 
c==Jwas the subject of a cover story in The Silicon Review and named a _________ by Manu by Manufacturing Technology Insights, as one of" 10 companies that are at the forefront of 
providing Smart Factory solutions and impacting the industry," but the record does not shed further light 
on these publications, their own reputations, or the manner in whichl lwas selected for inclusion. 
The Petitioner did not provide background evidence about The Silicon Review and Manufacturing 
Technology Insights to establish the significance of the coverage and recognition described above. As a 
result, the Petitioner has not established that those entities engage in objective journalism rather than 
promotion and marketing. The Silicon Review story, published without a byline, appears to be 
promotional in nature. The image of what appears to be an undated magazine cover includes the legend 
This phrase could be either a 
headline or an advertising slogan. 
4 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary /distinguished. 
6 
The Petitioner submitted an IRS Form 6765, Credit for Increasing Research Activities, filed with the 
company's 2020 income tax return. The Petitioner states that this document shows thatl has 
been recognized as a research-based company qualified for R&D tax credit." The Petitioner does not 
explain how this tax credit is evidence of a distinguished reputation, rather than a reflection that the 
company engages in research and development. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted that he had also perfmmed in leading and critical roles for and and ______ The Petitioner cites a newly-submitted letter and previously submitted 
documents, such as performance awards. The Petitioner asserts, for instance, that his '"techno-functional 
specification documents ... establish that he indeed played a significant role in developing the solutions 
which were implemented byl I clients at a large scale in their plants across the world." 
The materials establish that the Petitioner helped individual projects ome to successful completion, but 
these projects were not, themselves, divisions or departments o or 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's reputation 
appears to be largely confined to his employers and collaborators. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23378972 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 31, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classificationmakesimmigrantvisas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not: (1) satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which requires 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria; or (2) established that he would work in his area of expertise. We determined that 
the Director was correct overall in concluding that the petition did not warrant approval, andwe 
therefore dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and four subsequent motions. The matter is now before us 
on a fifth motion, this time a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 1 Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-
76. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determina tion and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(l )(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must: ( 1) state the new facts 
to be provided in the reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary 
evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence eligibility for the requested 
benefit. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's fourth motion, we determined that the 
Petitioner made the same assertions and submitted a brief whose content was nearly identical to the 
one provided in support of the prior third motion. As such, we concluded that the Petitioner offered 
no cogent argument to demonstrate that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our prior 
decision where we dismissed the Petitioner's third motion because he did notmeetthe awards criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . Therefore , a 
final merits determination was not necessary since the Petitioner did not meet three of the initial ten 
required criteria. See Matter of 0-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision) . We also determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish that we erred in reserving a determination on his intent to continue to work 
in his area of expertise under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
As noted in our prior decision, the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior 
adverse decision. Accordingly , we will examine only new facts or arguments that pertain to our 
dismissal of the Petitioner 's fourth motion, which was a motion to reconsider. Thus, the issue before 
us is whether the Petitioner can establish that we incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing the 
prior motion to reconsider. 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief addressing the merits of his claimed 
eligibility for the extraordinary ability visa classification , thereby seeking adjudication of the original 
claims and evidence. However , the purpose of a motion is to address new facts or evidence in the case 
2 
of a motion to reopen and/or to address error in how the law or users policy was applied in the 
decision that immediately preceded the motion in a motion to reconsider. In this instance, our prior 
decision addressed the merits of a motion to reconsider the Petitioner's third motion. We concluded 
that the Petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied the law or users policy in our prior 
decision dismissing his third motion. Merely disagreeing with our conclusions without showing how 
we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a 
ground to reconsider our decision. 2 
Here, in the decision that immediately preceded this motion, we declined to re-adjudicate the merits 
of the Petitioner's eligibility claims, explaining that those claims, and evidence submitted in support 
thereof, had been previously addressed in a comprehensive appeal decision that thoroughly analyzed 
and explained why the indicated evidence and claimed arguments did not meet the regulatmy 
requirements. Although the Petitioner disagrees with our prior detennination regarding the merits of 
his eligibility, he offers no new facts nor establishes that our prior decision dismissing the motion to 
reconsider was incorrect as a matter oflaw or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his current motion meets the requirements for a motion to reopen under 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) or 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider under 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, we will dismiss 
the motion to reopen and reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen and reconsider is dismissed. 
2 "Motions for reopening immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing and 
motions fora newtrialon the basis ofnewly discovered evidence." INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314,323 (1992)(citingJNS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 2365160 6 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 31, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial three required evidentiary criteria. We agreed with the Director's decision 
and dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement(thatis , a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not"or"probably"true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec . at 375-
76. 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reopening orreconsideration , a petitioner must not only meetthe formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically , a motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must: (1) state the new facts 
to be provided in the reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary 
evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
had only satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria and likewise concluded that the Petitioner did 
not satisfy the three additional criteria he claimed relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards, original contributions of major significance in the field, and evidence 
that he had a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (v), (viii). In support of the current motion , the Petitioner 
offers new evidence and argues that he met at least three required evidentiary criteria, thus asserting 
he warrants a final merits determination . 
A. Motion to Reopen 
First, we will address the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen. In support of the criterion related 
to original contributions of major significance , the Petitioner provides a 2022 review article that was 
posted on es.rollingstone.com and reference letters from_ _ a a theater producer, 
writer, and director, and two musicians -I an 
With respect to the review in the online publication of the Rolling Stone, because the article was 
published in 2022, it does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing in 2021 and thus 
the 2021 time of filing precedes the 2022 publication date of the article. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
With respect to the three reference letters, we find that they offer information that is similar in content 
to the Petitioner 's prior submissions. As with the previously submitted reference letters, the new 
letters also discuss the Petitioner's musical work and claim that he has created a new musical genre. 
Although all three references discuss how the Petitioner has influenced their respective works-in the 
case of the impact resulted in a collaborative project with the Petitioner -the letters are 
not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's music constitutes "contribution s of major 
2 
significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As noted in our prior decision, 
evidence that the Petitioner's talents have been recognized is not sufficient to show that his work has 
been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
Accordingly, the new facts and evidence submitted in support of this motion do not establish that the 
Petitioner has shown a proper cause for reopening. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
Next, we will address the Petitioner's motion to reconsider. In doing so, we will address the three 
criteria that served as the basis for our appeal decision. 
First, we will discuss the original contributions criterion, which requires the Petitioner to establish that 
his musical work is both original and of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In support of the motion, the Petitioner contends that the major significance of the Petitioner's work 
"is intrinsically rooted" in its originality and uniqueness. 
Notwithstanding the Petitioner's argument, originality and major significance are two separate 
elements of the criterion in question. As stated above, the original contributions criterion focuses on 
two key elements: the originality of the Petitioner's work and the "major significance" of that work in 
the Petitioner's field. Establishing that the Petitioner's work is original and unique does not 
necessarily establish that it is also of major significance. As discussed above, the evidence submitted 
thus far, including the submissions on motion, shows that the Petitioner's work has had influence on 
individuals in the music and ente1iainment industry, but it does not establish that the impact of the 
Petitioner's music rises to the level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner urges us to 
consider the evidence "as a whole," arguing that the totality of the evidence establishes "the originality, 
significance and influence of his innovative, original and unique work." We find, however, that an 
analysis of this nature was conducted on appeal, where we considered and discussed specific 
submissions comprehensively. And while we acknowledged that the submitted evidence was "not 
without weight," we concluded that the evidence submitted for this criterion did not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the field. See Matter of 
Caronlnt'l, 19 I&NDec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
The Petitioner also asserts that his work has sustained national or international acclaim and points to 
his performance at the Stage as evidence of such acclaim. However, 
first we focus on whether the Petitioner has met three of the ten outlined criteria before turning to the 
question of sustained national or international acclaim in the final merits determination. The Petitioner 
has not established that our finding on appeal, that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, was 
inconsistent with the law or USCIS policy. Likewise, the Petitioner's attempt to reintroduce 
previously submitted evidence is not sufficient to meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
Such evidence was addressed in our prior decision and ultimately deemed insufficient for purposes of 
meeting the requirements of the original contributions criterion. Further, although the Petitioner 
questions the lack of evidentiary weight previously given to a licensing agreement that we dismissed 
in a footnote, he does not dispute the fact that the licensing agreement postdated the petition's filing 
3 
date. He also does not establish that we erred in not considering the postdated document as evidence 
of the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). 
Next, we will discuss the criterion concerning the receipt oflesser national or international recognized 
prizes or awards of excellence. Here, as on appeal, the Petitioner once again argues that there is no 
existing prize or award that applies to his "new genre of music" and asks that we accept comparable 
evidence in the form of the "qualification of Excellent," which the Petitioner earned at a masterclass 
with I guitarist I 
Regarding the leading or critical role criterion, the Petitioner again points to his work with _ I relying on the company's past work with certain well-known artists as evidence 
of its distinction. In essence, the Petitioner reasse1is arguments he made on appeal regarding this 
criterion and the above criterion pertaining to lesser national or international prizes or awards; the 
Petitioner expresses his disagreement with our decision and points to evidence that we previously 
addressed, but he does not identify a law or USCIS policy that is inconsistent with our analysis, or 
explain how our analysis was incorrect as a matter of law or policy. 
Finally, the Petitioner cites to a Supreme Court precedent in which the Court determined that an agency 
decision is arbitrary and capricious "if the agency has relied on factors which Congress has not 
intended it to consider, entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the problem, offered an 
explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence before the agency, or is so implausible 
that it could not be ascribed to a difference in view or the product of agency expertise." Motor Vehicles 
Mfrs. Ass'n of the US., Inc. v. StateFarmMut. Auto Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983). However, the 
comprehensive nature of our analysis belies the assertion that our decision is not arbitrary or capricious 
based on the Supreme Court outlined discussion of these concepts. To the contrary, in our appeal 
decision, we considered and discussed the Petitioner's evidence, and offered sound legal reasoning as 
to why the evidence did not support a favorable determination with regard to each of the three disputed 
criteria. The purpose of a motion to reconsider is to address potential error in how the law or USCIS 
policy was applied in the preceding decision. Merely disagreeing with our conclusions without 
establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to USCIS policy that contradicts our analysis 
of the evidence is not a ground for reconsideration of our decision. 
In the matter at hand, the Petitioner has offered no cogent argument to demonstrate that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in our prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, although the Petitioner disagrees with our prior determination, he offers no new facts 
that warrant a reopening of this proceeding, nor does he establish that our prior decision was incorrect 
as a matter of law or policy. Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his current motion meets 
the requirements for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) or the requirements of a motion 
to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3), we will dismiss the motion to reopen and reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen and reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22105561 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor at seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed twelve motions filed by the Petitioner 
between 2014 and 2021. Most recently, we dismissed his September 2021 (twelfth) motion to 
reconsider as untimely on February 22, 2022. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and 
reconsider our decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). In addition, a motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and 
be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) 
establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time 
of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l) and 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b), in general, motions must be filed within 33 days 
of the adverse decision. In response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic , however, USCIS 
extended the deadline for filing a Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. A petitioner may file a 
Form I-290B within 60 calendar days from the date of the adverse decision, if USCIS issued the 
decision between March 1, 2020, and January 15, 2022.1 As relating to a motion to reopen the 
proceeding, the filing deadline may be excused in the discretion of USCIS if a petitioner demonstrates 
that the delay was reasonable and was beyond their control. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The implementing 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence 
requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
In our February 2022 decision, we dismissed the Petitioner's twelfth motion as untimely filed. We 
explained that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 calendar days of the date 
we mailed the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l), 103.8(b). However, because of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we noted that USCIS would consider a Form I-290B filed within 60 calendar days of an 
unfavorable decision. Our decision further stated: "On July 9, 2021, we mailed the unfavorable 
decision to you. Your Form I-290B was received at the designated filing location on September 15, 
2021, which is 68 days after the decision." 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner contends that his twelfth motion "was sent on time" and that the filing delay was 
reasonable and beyond his control. He presents a U.S. Postal Service receipt indicating that he mailed 
his Form I-290B and supporting documents on August 3, 2021.2 This evidence is sufficient to 
corroborate the Petitioner's claim that he mailed his Form I-290B more than one month in advance of 
the filing deadline. There is no indication that the Petitioner's actions contributed to the unusual delay 
that occurred from after the date of mailing until the Form I-290B's receipt at the designated filing 
location on September 15, 2021. Because the record shows that the filing delay was reasonable and 
beyond his control, we will exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his twelfth motion. See 
1 USCIS Extends Flexibilityfor Responding to Agency Requests, available at https://www.uscis.gov/newsroom/alerts/uscis­
extends-flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests ( accessed on August 31, 2022). 
2 The record also includes a copy of the envelope in which his Form I-290B submission was mailed. The envelope was 
correctly addressed to the designated filing location and shows a postmark date of August 3, 2021. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). Accordingly, we will address the merits of his untimely (September 2021) 
twelfth motion in this proceeding. 
The present motion and his twelfth motion, however, do not offer new facts or evidence indicating 
that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award, or that he satisfies at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He therefore has not 
overcome our prior determination on these issues. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With respect to the merits of his arguments in support of both the present motion and the twelfth 
motion, the Petitioner lists documents previously considered in earlier proceedings and contends that 
he meets seven of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's conclusory 
statements that he satisfies seven regulatory criteria and is otherwise qualified for the requested 
classification, and his repetition of arguments previously made in support of his appeal and prior 
motions, do not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 3 In addition, while the Petitioner 
states that he "has 7 (seven) university degrees," he has not shown that his academic degrees fulfill 
any specific criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner's arguments on motion do not 
demonstrate that we erred in concluding that he had not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that 
our determination was based on an incorrect application oflaw, regulation, or USCIS policy. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we erred as a matter of law or USCIS policy, nor has he 
established new facts relevant to our decision that would warrant reopening of the proceedings. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration. The Petitioner's appeal therefore 
remains dismissed, and his underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 For instance, the Petitioner points to his receipt of an ____ in 2005, but he has not shown that this award 
constitutes a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), or evidence of a nationally or internationally 
recognized award consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing the Petitioner's 
tenth motion, we noted that we had previously explained that the record did not demonstrate that the 
the Petitioner received enjoyed national or international recognition in his field. Further, we emphasized that, in his 
previous motion, the Petitioner did not address our determination that although he claimed to have received an international I in 2005, the record did not indicate that the international edition of the award existed prior to 2010. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21881018 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 6, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chemist and manufacturer of dietary supplements, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in "chemistry and natural products" at Universi in 
1980, and pursued postdoctoral training at !University and the University o I I He established three companies which he directs: [ I and I both in India, andl I in New York, which he established in 2021 while in 
the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. The Petitioner states: 
In 1988, I started my own company and independently started to [ conduct] research on 
natural products. I view myself as an emerging scientist, and I am mainly interested in 
[processing] Edible products ... to check their efficacies in [ treating] different diseases. 
My current research involves the development of novel compounds for various critical 
diseases where no present day therapies [exist] like Pancreatic Cancer Stem Cells, 
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma, Castrate Resistant Prostate cancer, Lung Carcinomas, 
Alzheimer's diseases, Sars-cov2, Metabolism and Joint Pains. Compounds have been 
tested in Xenograft studies of these diseases and have [shown] very intriguing efficacy. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner published six scholarly articles, to meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed 
criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only 
one criterion, pertaining to publication of scholarly articles. We will discuss the other claimed criteria 
below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner co-authored six scholarly articles, published between 1979 and 1985. Heavy citation of 
published work can be an indication of the significance of an individual's contributions. 6 USCIS Policy 
ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Here, each of the Petitioner's articles has 
2 
been cited between2 and 1 7 times. The Petitioner has not established that this rate of citation overroughly 
four decades demonstrates major significance. 
More recent documentation indicates that the Petitioner has continued to conduct research outside an 
academic setting. Documents from India's patent authorities indicate that he registered a patent in 2004 
for a "process for preparing the phannaceutical extract." He also filed two applications in 2020, for "a 
process for preparing a phannaceutical preparation for diabetes" and "a process for preparing a 
pharmaceutical preparation. The Petitioner did not document the outcome of these applications. 
The Petitioner submits three letters. One, written in 1984 by a chemistry professor at I does not 
identify any specific research contributions by the Petitioner. Rather, the five-sentence letter is addressed 
to an administrative official at asking to extend the Petitioner's postdoctoral fellowship "for one 
additional year." 
The other two letters were newl written to support the petition. An assistant professor at the University 
of stated that the Petitioner "discovered new botanical drug 
__ against COVID-19," and that"[ w ]e are in the process of the [sic] beginning phase I clinical 
trials." The letter indicates that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) "has provided pre-IND 
number," but the Petitioner submitted no evidence to corroborate this claim or explain its significance. 
The chief executive officer ofl I, "an operating/venture fund," has "known [ the Petitioner] 
since 19 7 5 ." The letter discusses I I in similar language to the letter quoted above, and also 
indicates that an unspecified "compound invented by [the Petitioner] ... has shown intriguing efficiency" 
against "pancreatic cancer stem cells which ... are the main culprit for developing chemoresistance in 
pancreatic cancer." 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted documents referring to commercialization 
and testing of compounds developed by the Petitioner's companies. These materials provide details about 
those compounds, but they include no intrinsic evidence to establish major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted two additional letters. The president of 
who has "worked closely" with the Petitioner since 2016 "to analyze his natural product compounds," 
stated: 
Our efforts working with [the Petitioner's] natural products have revealed ___ 
inhibitor activity for several high-profile I The greatest inhibition was seen with 
HER2, a receptor I that has been an actively studied target for the treatment 
of human cancer. I believe that [ the Petitioner's] research program represents a novel and 
promising research strategy that will lead to promising advancements in the treatment of 
human cancers and related maladies. 
The Petitioner submitted documentation relating tol I test results, but did not establish that 
these results had been published or otherwise disseminated more widely in the field. 
A professor at stated: "Our group is actively collaborating with to 
investigatel effects on various GI cancers. In our initial screening, we also observed that 
3 
__ inhibits the growth of various cancer cells ... .. gave us tremendous hope for the 
management of cancer." 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that I I has attracted attention beyond his 
collaborators and those with a commercial interest in the product. Despite the hopeful comments of the 
Petitioner's collaborators, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that the wider field considers 
the Petitioner's contributions to have major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserted that his "patent is nowused by [the University I I University Institute for making ointments for diabetic wounds." The Petitioner 
submitted technical documents from University relating to testing of compounds, and a copy of a 
letter indicating that "the topical application of .. may be considered as a pmmising therapeutic 
option for treating chronic wounds in diabetic patients." The letteris from2018,neai1ythree years before 
the Petitioner filed the petition, and the record does not establish that the university adopted the use of the 
compound since that time. Furthermore, in the absence of any additional evidence, use at a single 
institution would not establish major significance in the field. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that, while the Petitioner has submitted documentation describing 
his work, he has not shown that his "research has made a major impact on the field, or been utilized on 
any scale." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: "Impact of my research will be seen in coming months. . . . All our 
compounds may need FDA approval for which funds are required. So not published but only patented." 
He adds: "Anticancer, antidiabetic, Anti COVID-19 compounds already developed. Anti COVID-19 
Got pre IND no. from FDA to go for Clinical Trails [sic]. Working on Neurodegerative [sic] diseases." 
The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l). As a 
result, we cannot approve a petition prematurely, on the expectation that the "impact of [his] research will 
be seen in the coming months." To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must 
show that his original contributions already have major significance in the field; it cannot suffice for him 
to anticipate the field's future response to his work. 
With respect to the references to the FDA, the Petitioner has not established that the FDA only concerns 
itself with contributions of major significance. Additionally, as he notes, "All our compounds may need 
FDA approval for which funds are required," nothing shows that funding will be received or the FDA 
would ultimately approve these. The Petitioner's intention to pursue further steps with the FDA regarding 
his companies' products is not a major contribution, and does not establish the major significance of those 
products. 
The Petitioner repeats that claim that his company's "antidiabetic compound [is] already used by 
University India to develop ointment for quick wound healing & [preventing] amputations." As noted 
above, the Petitioner has shown that the university evaluated one of his compounds, but he has not 
established that the compound has been widely adopted and had an impact not only at one institution, but 
throughout the field. 
4 
The development of medicinal compounds is inherent to the Petitioner's current work; the invention of 
any given compound is not, in and of itself, a contribution of major significance. The Petitioner has not 
satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner stated: "I am self employed and Revenue is being generated from commercialisation of 
my patented compounds." Citing inf ormation on his income tax return for 2020-2021, the Petitioner 
stated that, during that tax year, he earned "910,000 Indian Rupees as wages and an additional 460,241 
Indian Rupees as business remuneration" from his companies, for a total of < 1,370,241. Citing salary 
survey data, the Petitioner asserted that his total income "is approximately four times the average in India" 
for "Analytical Chemists and otherresearchers." The Petitioner did not submit the first-hand survey data 
itself, and therefore this assertion is both uncorroborated and lacking in potentially important context. 
In a request for evidence, the Director asked for documentary evidence sufficient to allow a meaningful 
comparison between the Petitioner's salary and remuneration and that of others in the same field. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted printouts of salary ranges for a variety of occupations: 
Occupation 
Medical Scientist 
Medical Director 
Research Scientist 
Biomedical Engineer Average Annual Salary 
<832,000 
<855,000 
<687,490 
Ministry of Defence Emeritus Medical Scientist 
Indian Council of Medical Research Scientist <357,000 
<790,830 
<451,692 
Scientist <596,088 Source 
Salary explorer 
Salary explorer 
Payscale 
Collegedunia 
Glassdoor 
Indeed 
Indeed 
The wide range of figures indicates a lack of consensus. Some figures concern employment with a 
specific employer, and thus do not represent the field. The Glassdoor figure is tagged with a "Low" rate 
of confidence in the data; the printouts do not establish the reliability of the other figures. The printouts 
do not list the duties of the occupations, and the Petitioner has not established that his position is 
comparable to the many occupational titles listed in the printouts. Of particular significance, the 
Petitioner owns three businesses and, in this way, derives income beyond his salary. The record 
identifies those businesses but provides only a small amount of information as to the nature of their 
activities. The printouts do not take this significant factor into account. 
Apart from the other issues, the Pay scale printout indicates that 10% of medical scientists in India earn 
more than <2 million, which is more than double the Petitioner's stated salary of <910,000 and 
considerably higher than hist stated total compensation of about <1.37 million. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the web printouts state "the compensation for medical 
scientists without taking into account whether they are corporate executives or business owners" like the 
Petitioner is, and therefore the Petitioner had not provided a valid basis for comparison. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the "average salary of [a] scientific officer'' is <52,000, and that his 
<140,000 "income ... supports my life and R&D comfortably." This statement implicitly acknowledges 
the distinction between "salary" and "income," but does not resolve the problem that the Director 
described. Also, the regulatory standard is "a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field," not whether the Petitioner's income is sufficient to fund 
research and development. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to satisfy this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained national or international acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We note, further, that while the Petitioner is the co-author of eight published articles, those articles 
were all published more than 35 years before he filed the petition in 2021. In terms of sustained 
acclaim, it bears noting that the Petitioner's articles have been cited only a handful of times in the past 
decade, the most recent citation having appeared in 201 7. The evidence submitted does not show the 
field-wide recognition or sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations demand. Rather, he has 
submitted letters from individuals working with him on product testing and development. Some of 
his products have reached the market, but the record does not show the impact these products have 
had on a national or international scale. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22320416 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 06, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in biochemistry, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive docmnentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by submitting 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner met two of these 
criteria, relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a judge of the work of 
others, but did not meet any of the remaining three criteria he claimed. The Petitioner now submits a 
motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(2)]. We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to his 
authorship of scholarly articles and his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. In 
our previous decision, we agreed with the Director regarding those two criteria, and determined that 
the Petitioner did not meet the following additional criteria that he claimed: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii) Published material about the individual in professional, major trade or other major 
media; and 
• (v) Original scientific contributions of major significance in the field 
On motion, the Petitioner submits hundreds of pages of previously submitted evidence. As stated 
above, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. Because the vast majority 
of the evidence submitted on motion does not include new facts, it will not be considered in this 
decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In support of his claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h )(3 )(i), the Petitioner submits a new letter 
froml I which confirms his inclusion in lin the World 2010-11 and I I in Science and Engineering 2016-17. However, this letter does not include new 
information regarding the inclusion of his biography in these publications, and is accompanied by 
previously submitted evidence regarding I I selection process. As this evidence does not 
include new facts, it will not be considered. 
The Petitioner also submits new evidence relating to his qualification for a lectureship from India's 
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and a senior research fellowship from the Indian Council 
of Medical Research. In general, we will not address issues that were not raised with specificity on 
appeal. The Petitioner did not contest the findings of the Director regarding this evidence or offer 
additional arguments in his appeal brief. We therefore consider this issue to have been waived. See, 
e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence which demonstrates his receipt of a nationally 
or internationally recognized award, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
2 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the published material is about them 
and relates to their work in the field, and that the material was published in one of the qualifying types 
of media. 
We previously considered evidence of the Petitioner's authorship of a book chapter as well as a press 
release regarding that chapter, but concluded that neither were about the Petitioner. On motion, the 
Petitioner now submits additional copies of that same press release which were published on different 
websites. However, as we have already determined that this material is not about him, the fact that it 
was published in other media is not of consequence. No version of the press release makes mention 
of the Petitioner beyond listing him as an author. Further, such marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a product or promoting a service are generally not considered to qualify under this 
criterion. See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices. The same reasoning applies to another press 
release, this one from the University of I which likewise describes a research project 
and lists the Petitioner as a contributor. 
The Petitioner also submits evidence of a paper he co-authored being referred to on the website 
www.malacards.com. The submitted webpages appear to serve as reference material for I I I and provides links to several sources of information. As we stated in our previous decision 
regarding articles which cited to the Petitioner's published work, this material is not about him or any 
of the authors of other referenced material, nor does it emphasize his work over that of others whose 
work is also cited or referenced. 
The newly submitted evidence does not show that material about the Petitioner and his work has been 
published in any of the qualifying types of media. As such, it does not change our previous 
determination that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, they may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits complete copies of several scholarly articles that he co-authored, 
whereas the record previously included only two pages of each of these articles. However, our 
decision on appeal did not raise any issues about the authenticity of the previously submitted evidence. 
Because the complete copies of these articles do not add new evidence of either the originality or the 
significance of the Petitioner's research contributions, they do not meet the requirements of a motion 
to reopen and will therefore not be considered. Other evidence submitted with this motion in support 
of this criterion include a list of the Petitioner's publications and citations from Google Scholar and 
metrics which put those citations into context, all of which had been previously submitted and 
reviewed in our appeal decision. 
3 
The single new piece of evidence submitted in support of this criterion is a letter from 
of the University ot1 I who had also submitted a letter with the 
this time with greater focus on bis development of a a used to study disease Petitioner's appeal. He describes the Petitioner's resear rch much as he did in his pre i 1 ter, but 
and I while at explains that this 
will help to better understand these diseases and test for treatment strategies. He concludes by stating 
that the model "will be used in more studies and uncover key mechanisms of the disease." Although 
I I explains that the Petitioner used this model in his studies of I he does not 
indicate that other researchers other than the Petitioner and his collaborators have used it. While his 
letter indicates that there is potential for thel Ito have a significant impact on the field, it 
does not show that th has already done so. 
Based on our review of the new evidence submitted on motion, we conclude that it does not overcome 
our previous decision that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Apart from the letter froml I the evidence submitted with this motion does not include 
new facts, and thus does not meet the requirements for a motion to reopen. After consideration of that 
evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has met any of the additional evidentiary criteria 
he has asserted, not has he shown that he is otherwise eligible for the requested classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20801597 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a qualifying one-time 
achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), and did not claim, in the alternative, that he 
was submitting evidence to satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a I lathlete who competes in the sport internationally. He indicates that he will 
continue to compete as a professional athlete in the United States. In addition, the Petitioner 
states that he intends to contribute to ongoing efforts to introduce to the Olympic Games, and 
to open a school to train future __ __,athletes. 
The Petitioner seeks to establish his eligibility for this classification based on a one-time achievement 
(a major internationally recognized award). The Petitioner's counsel has expressly stated that "he is 
NOT applying under the 3/10 criteria test" by submitting evidence that he satisfies at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, our review is limited to a 
determination of whether the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification 
based on a qualifying one-time achievement. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that his most significant awards in international competition are: 
• First placel lat the 20171 ITour Grand Final tournament 
• First place in the 2018 Tour Grand Slam 
As a preliminary matter, we confirm that the record contains sufficient evidence to corroborate these 
achievements.1 This evidence includes: photographs of the Petitioner's trophies for the 2017 I Grand Final and 2018 Grand Slam (with legible inscriptions); press releases 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director appeared to overlook or mischaracterize certain evidence related to 
his athletic accomplishments. 
2 
published on the "News" section of the website of the Tour 
, , contemporaneous with the events; tournament results and rankings 
published by gScore.eu for the 2017 I ITour, the 2017 I !Grand 
Final and the 2018 Grand Slam); and letters from a senior official of the Federation 
fo ___________ hich confirm these two achievements. 
While there are references to the Petitioner's other awards and his rankings in the sport in the record, 
some of those achievements are not as well documented. For example, there are multiple letters (from 
I I from the President of the and from other athletes) 
that state that the Petitioner was ranked number two in the world at the end of the 2019 season. 
However, the record does not include any further evidence of this world ranking, evidence that the 
ranking itself is an "award," or that is otherwise accompanied by a prize or award. We note that the 
President indicates that the Petitioner has competed in World Tour tournaments and a 
senior I I official states that the Petitioner has consistently competed at thel I World 
Championships. We do not question the reliability of their statements. However, the only results and 
rankings the Petitioner has documented with additional supporting evidence are those he achieved in 
competition on the Tour. 
Accordingly, we will focus on the Petitioner's above-referenced achievements in the 2017 and 2018 I Tour to determine whether he has a qualifying one-time achievement based on his 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award. 
Neither the pertinent statute nor the regulations identify a particular prize or award which qualifies as 
a one-time achievement. We must look to Congress' intent that "admission under this category is to 
be reserved for that small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of 
endeavor." See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 
WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one­
time achievement. Id. Thus, consistent with legislative history, a one-time achievement must be 
interpreted narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally 
recognized awards. We have consistently recognized certain awards (beyond the Nobel Prize) as 
qualifying one-time achievements, such as the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. 
The selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is reported in 
the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to 
the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could 
conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the 
example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized, 
not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. 
The record contains a letter froml I Chief Organizer of the l ______ Tour 
and former !President , who provides the following description of the tour: 
The Tour is the most prestigious tour inl I The Tour 
usually consists of 10 tournaments, spread out acrosse==], plus a Grand Final, the 
location of which varies yearly. Each tournament awards points to the athletes based 
3 
on their performance . The top players from around the world compete in the Tour, 
which ends with the Grand Final, a prestigious championship tournament that awards 
more points to players than the average tournaments. 
In 2017, [the Petitioner] finished the Tour in second place, in 2018, he finished in first 
place, while in 2019, he finished in third place. In the same years, he placed number 
1, 2 and 5 at the Grand Final, respectively. Each year, the Tour fielded over a hundred I professionals who earned at least one point in the Tour .... Each tournament 
hosts dozens of top players. For example, in 2017, [the Petitioner] won the Grand Final 
in Portugal, the most prestigious! I tournament inl I ahead of 25 top I !professionals. 
As noted, the record contains evidence that the website of the I IT our publishes press 
releases with results of itsl tournaments and that such press releases mentioned the 
Petitioner's successes at the 2017 Grand Final, the 2018 Grand Slam and his top two finishes among 
thel Tour in both years. The record, including testimonial evidence from 
nd top I I athletes, establishes that these are acknowledged in the field as the top 
awards forl !athletes. However, the record does not support a determination 
that either of the Petitioner's awards earned on the ITour is a major, internationally 
recognized award that qualifies as a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determination that the record does not 
contain evidence of a one-time achievement "deviates from Service practice," noting that USCIS has 
"consistently" considered a medal at a world championship or continental championship to be a "major 
internationally recognized accomplishment." Counsel's brief includes receipt numbers for several of 
his own previous petition filings in support of his assertion that USCIS service centers have approved 
extraordinary ability petitions for persons who had won national, continental or international 
championships in fields such as chess and poker. 2 However, counsel has not cited to any USCIS 
policy, case law or other binding authority to support his claim that evidence of an award at a 
continental or world championship is generally deemed to be sufficient to qualify as a one-time 
achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's contention that many athletes participate in sports that are not 
included in the Olympic Games. We agree that, in some athletic pursuits, an Olympic medal is not 
the only qualifying major internationally recognized award. However, not all internationally 
recognized awards in athletics receive the type of recognition needed to qualify as "major" awards 
consistent with the one-time achievement contemplated by Congress. In cases where an individual 
cannot obtain a one-time achievement, including instances where it is not available in a field, the 
individual "can also qualify on the basis of a career of acclaimed work in the field" by satisfying three 
of the ten categories of evidence. See H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In those instances, 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for an individual to submit lesser internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field. The regulation does not allow a petitioner to substitute 
2 The evidence submitted with the referenced petitions is not before us for review. Further, we emphasize that we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), a.ffd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
4 
lesser awards as one-time achievements in instances where there is no qualifying major internationally 
recognized award in the field. Further, there is no comparable evidence for the one-time achievement 
of a major, internationally recognized award. 3 
As noted, the record establishes that the Petitioner has won Grand Final and Grand Slam events that 
are considered the highest level of competition among ________ athletes on the 
I ITour. As evidence of the recognition associated with the award, the Petitioner 
documented that the website of thel Tour published press releases reporting the 
results of these tournaments (highlighting the top finishers among men, women, and seniors) and that 
the full results of these events were published by the website gScore.eu. The Petitioner did not provide 
any additional media coverage of these events or provide evidence that either of the sources that 
published the results are major media outlets. He also provided letters from land I I officials 
and world champion! athletes attesting to the fact that his achievements represent the top I I awards in the sport. Finally, we note that the record includes a photograph of the Petitioner 
holding what appears to be a €150.00 cash prize for a second-place finish at the 2018 Portugal Open, 
which served as the Grand Final of the 2018 Tour. 
While we do not question the caliber of competition at the annuall Tour Grand Final 
and Grand Slam events, the record does not include evidence demonstrating that these competitions 
receive broad or significant international recognition outside of the sport itself, such as evidence that 
they receive a level of media attention comparable to that of the Olympic Games or other major 
internationally recognized athletic competitions. On appeal, the Petitioner compares bis achievements 
to top achievements in other sports, noting, for example, that his 2017 European Tour Grand Final 
victory is equivalent to "winning Wimbledon." However, he has not provided evidence that his award 
garnered a similar level of international recognition, nor has he shown, for example, that his awards 
were accompanied by large cash prizes or that the awards he received are familiar to persons outside 
the sport. As discussed above, establishing that an award is acknowledged as a prestigious 
international award in one's field is not sufficient absent evidence that the award gamers major 
international recognition of the type contemplated by Congress. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or that he can satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification based on a one-time achievement. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . As noted, where 
a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we must consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, while the Petitioner asserts that his rankings 
in his sport support a determination that he has reached the top of his field, he did not meet his burden 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix , https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
5 
to establish that he satisfies the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above-stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22046723 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 09, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationallyrecognizedaward or meeting three of the evidentiarycriteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner now appeals that decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has successfully competed in martial arts tournaments at 
the national and international level in the past. He submitted letters from two martial arts training 
schools indicating that he is training and competing at local competitions in preparation for 
competition inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, 1 he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
four of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he has 
not met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, and is not eligible as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence of their receipt of awards, that they 
were granted on the basis of excellence in their field of expertise, and that the awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized in that field. Here, the Petitioner lists several awards he claims to have 
received in competitions from2005 to 2016, but provides evidence relating to 
only a few of them. The most recent of these is evidenced by a certificate issued by the I indicating that he received a gold medal in thel I division, 
1 In his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner indicated that hehadreceiveda major, internationally 
recognized award, but did not identify which ofhis awards metthis standardorprovide additional evidence to support this 
claim. He does not repeat this claim on appeal. 
2 
male, and ]weight class atthe 2016 ________ ____,Championship inl 
Thailand. In edition, the Petitioner also submitted evidence concerning his receipt of the following 
awards at sanctioned events: 
• Gold Medal, 2015 Asian Championship,! I Male,I I 
• Silver Medal, 2011 I I World I I Championship, Male I I I 
• Pro-Am Champion, 2011 ...... World Championship 
• First Place, 20111 INational Championship in 
However, there are some discrepancies with this evidence, consisting mainly of certificates with some 
photos of medals, and other evidence in the record. For example, the Petitioner submitted a copy of 
his profile posted on the website ______ which lists him as the "2011 I I 
Champion of Asia." The record does not include evidence that he received this award, nor does he 
claim to have received such an award. While this profile is not an authoritative source of information, 
it presents evidence which conflicts with other evidence in the record. 
In addition, a letter from President of the 
states that the Petitioner was a world champion in Thailand in 2011, 2012 and 2016, and a world champion 
in Indonesia in 2015. But this conflicts with the evidence noted above, which shows that he won a silver 
medal at the 2011 World I !Championship, and that his 2015 gold medal win was at the 
Asianl • IChampionship. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 
(BIA 1988). 
We further note that both the certificate evidencing the Petitioner's win at the 2011 National 
Championship and the letter from I reference a which indicates that there is or 
was a separate nationaj !association and championship recognized by the apart from those 
recognized by other international martial arts associations. As all of the Petitioner's awards were earned 
at sanctioned events, the record does not establish that they are recognized in the overall martial 
arts field at the national and international levels, including by those who are members of and participate 
in competitions sanctioned by other martial arts associations such as thel I 
Also, as noted by the Director in his opinion, the record lacks evidence of national or international 
recognition of these awards beyond the certificates and medals themselves. The Petitioner submitted 
evidence of a single article which appeared in the newspaper Darakchi which was about thel I 
World Cup to be held inl l Uzbekistan in 2011. This article focuses on thisl !sanctioned 
event, and does not show that the Petitioner's awards received atl I events received any similar 
discussion in either major media or in the martial arts field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the awards he received are not local or regional in nature, and that 
the focus of our analysis should be on the recognition of the awards, not the Petitioner. Although we agree 
with these statements, they do not aid in establishing the national or international recognition of the awards 
received by the Petitioner. As noted above, the record lacks sufficient evidence of the recognition of those 
awards, and there are umesolved inconsistencies regarding his receipt of some of them. Therefore, for all 
3 
of the reasons noted above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion requires that a petitioner show that they are a member of an association in their field, 
and that the association requires outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized 
experts. In his decision, the Director acknowled ed the letter from in which he confirms 
that the Petitioner has been representing the __________ team since 2010, but noted 
that it did not establish that the national team requires outstanding achievements of its members. On 
appeal, the Petitioner references this letter and asserts that the team meets this requirement. However, 
I letter provides no insight on the selection process for thel I 
team, nor does any other evidence in the record. While membership on a national team may meet the 
requirements of this criterion, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish that those requirements have 
been met in each case. Because he has not done so, we conclude that he has not met this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The evidence submitted under this criterion consists of a single article published in the newspaper 
Zeravshan on I 2008, titled _ While the Petitioner is 
mentioned and quoted in this article, the Director determined that it was not about him. In addition, 
he noted that the evidence did not demonstrate that Zeravshan is a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media. 
In his appeal, the Petitioner did not address the Director's finding that the article was not about him, 
but asserts that we should focus "on the circulation of the publication, its intended audience if it is a 
professional or trade publication, or the editorial influence of the media source ... " Because the 
Petitioner has not challenged an adverse finding on one of the elements of this criterion, and the record 
includes no evidence of the circulation of Zeravshan or any other information about it, we concur with 
the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to lesser awards, membership, and 
published material about him. Although he also claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, 
relating to contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this 
additional ground. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidence requirementofthree criteria 
4 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve that issue. 2 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 SccINSv. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22099821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de 
nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, participation as a judge of others' work at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets six additional 
evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he won Telenedelya magazine's 
prize (2014) based on having received the most votes in the 
category.3 He also provided the rules associated with this magazine's 
prize, which state that individuals "can take part in the voting using SMS-messages or the site tv.ua/tz," 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
3 The Petitioner's evidence reflects that the I I prize was awarded to individuals in 12 different categories. 
2 
that "[aa ]ny Ukrainian TV viewer can take part in the voting," and that winners are selected based on 
votes received from "the largest number of viewers." 
In addition, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he was recognized as I ______ 
in 2019 by Cosmopolitan magazine's Ukrainian edition. The rules for this award indicate: "You can 
vote one vote from each social media account or from one mailbox. You can vote for just one nominee 
in each of the nine categories. Voting for the nominees will last from March 1, 2019 to May 21, 2019 
inclusively on the website cosmo.com.ua. Only ... citizens of Ukraine residing in the territory of 
Ukraine have the right to take part in the voting." 
The Petitioner further provided promotional information about his awards from the aforementioned 
magazines' websites and some media coverage relatinJ to the announcement of the winners, but this 
documentation does not indicate the significance of his I prize and award 
in the field of endeavor. 4 The record does not include evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's 
awards were recognized by the field in general rather than mainly limited to the readership of 
Telenedelya or the Ukrainian edition of Cosmopolitan. Nor does the evidence show that the limited 
media coverage relating to the Petitioner's two awards rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. Without further evidence regarding their national or international significance in his field, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also claimed five awards won by the reality television show I I as 
evidence for this criterion. 5 To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he was the 
recipient of prizes or awards. 6 The documentation announcing the winners of the I I and 
I I awards, however, does not identify the Petitioner as their recipient. See Hristov v. Roark, 
2011 WL 4711885 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) (finding that a producer and star actor was not the recipient of 
awards for Best Short Film and Best Cinematography since he was not named on either award). 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted articles about him in Cosmopolitan (Ukrainian edition), National Geographic 
(Russian edition), Otdokhni!, Hello! (Russian edition), GQ (Russian edition), Mediananny.com, 
4 Cf, Strategati, LLC v Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award 
eliminated men from consideration and thus did not "measure th i i n r' n ing or selection from the whole field.") 
5 The record indicates that the Petitioner w was a co-host of the television show. This show received 
Russian Academy of TelevisionL__J awards in 2014, 2016 and 2018 for and 
National Council ofT elevision and Radio Broadcasting ofUkrainel I awards in 2015 and 2016 for ___ 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that the description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.) 
3 
Telenedelya, www.gazeta.ru, https :// I istochnik. ru, www footboom. ru, www.stb.ua, and 
ua.tribuna.com, but the authors of the articles in Cosmopolitan, National Geographic, Otdokhni!, 
Mediananny.com, Telenedelya, wwwfootboom.ru, and www.stb.ua were not identified as required by 
this criterion. In addition, the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) 
included screenshots from similarweb.com regarding website traffic for the aforementioned 
publications' websites. For example, the similarweb.com "Traffic Overview" for Cosmopolitan 
(Ukrainian edition) listed 'Total Visits" at "660.25K," a "Global Rank" of "106,481," a "Country 
Rank" of "2,126," and a "Category Rank" of "339." The Petitioner, however, did not establish the 
significance of these statistics, showing that the aforementioned magazines and websites represent 
major trade publications or other major media. 7 
Also in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided two additional articles about him in 
L'Officiel I 12021) and Privat Space 2020), but both articles were published after 
he filed the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
Given the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner argues that he "has created and produced a substantial number of TV 
shows, which were broadcasted on the major Russian TV channel I I and have garnered a large 
number of reviews, comments by Petitioner's colleagues -TV presenters, as can be seen from their 
written letters-testimonies."9 As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed 
information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the 
nature of specific "original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been 
considered to be of major significance. 
For example, in his two letters dated 2020 and 2021, I general 
manager at __________ in indicated that the Petitioner has worked for the I I channel "as TV host/presenter of our most popular! lshow ... si smce 
2013 .... I I became the pivotal part of our programming ... Our channel has won 
numerous awards for I I with [the Petitioner] as host of the show and a creative 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
9 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
visionary behind its lasting success."10 While these awards recognized the popularity and creativity 
of the shshow, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's original work 
has influenced the entertainment industry to the extent that it is of major significance in the field. ..c==J further stated that the Petitioner "created and produced his own TV shows such as I I 
(2014), I (2016-2019), and I I Additionally, I I 
claimed that these shows "became very popular among viewers in Russia and CIS" (Commonwealth 
oflndependent States), but the record does not include sufficient information or supporting evidence 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's part in these projects has affected his industry in a substantial way 
or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, I I director of production studio in 11 
asserted that "thanks to [the Petitioner's] skills, talent, and expertise, show 
consistently received very high ratings and was thus able to achieve tremendous success and popularity 
in Ukraine, in the CIS, in Israel etc." She also claimed that "[a]ll seasons of the show in which [the 
Petitioner] was a co-host were hugely popular and were viewed by millions and millions of people," 
but the record does not include published television rankings or other statistical evidence to 
corroborate her statements. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his work onl I 
rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition I producer of indicated 
that the Petitioner worked as the host of that show "three full seasons starting in 2016, and that his 
contributions to the success of the show were significant." I !explained that the 
Petitioner "joined the original host of the show who was the face of the fofor six 
years,I I It was during that season that the show -which was already tremendously 
popular but had reached a bit of a plateau by its seventh year -enjoyed a great spike in popularity and 
ratings, a spike that continued all throughout the time when [the Petitioner] was a host onl I 
The record, however, does not include sufficient information or evidence to show that the Petitioner's 
hosting of constitutes a contribution of major significance in the 
entertainment field. 
FurthermoreJ administrative director for ______ in Ukraine, asserted that the 
Petitioner "is an extraordinaril= talented TV presenter on the most popular TV shows including I I I 11 11 I I and others. He is also a huge social 
media influencer with almost 2 million followers on Instagram .... "12 Whilel I further 
described the Petitioner as "a very talented and unique TV presenter," she did not offer specific 
examples of how his work has risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in his field. 
10 As previously noted, the record includes documentation indicating that received Russian Academy 
of Television awards in 2014, 2016 and 2018 for and National Council of 
Television and Radio Broadcasting ofUkrainel I awards in 2015 and 2016 for I I 
11 According to letter, is the sole holder of exclusive intellectual property rights" 
for thel I show. 
12 The Petitioner provided a screenshot of his Instagram profile reflecting that he has 1. 9 million followers. While this 
number of followers shows the Petitioner's level of popularity on social media, it does represent an original artistic or 
business-related contribution of major significance in the field. 
5 
Letters that specifically articulate how the individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and his impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record also includes promotional information from !website forl I ________ I I and I I Additionally, the 
Petitioner provided a Y ouTube screenshot for I and nine feedback comments posted at 
otzyvru.com. Furthermore, he presented YouTube screenshots from 2021 indicating that his number 
of subscribers increased from 166,000 (May 2021) to 217,000 (November 2021), but this subscription 
information post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the 
time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
availability of his shows onl land subscribership to his programs on YouTube signify 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that because he has 1.8 million Instagram followers and contracts 
with international brands such as I II II I andl "it is undoubtedly 
clear that the Petitioner's work significantly impacted and influenced the field of television." While 
the record indicates that the Petitioner has a achieved a level of popularity in the television industry 
and that he has received endorsement deals, he has not demonstrated that his original work rises to the 
level of artistic or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 14 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role forl I 
I 11 thel I the Ukrainian Soccer ClubLJ I II land the showl I 
With regard to his work for ________ the Petitioner rovided two letters from __ 
I I the company's director. In her April 2021 letter, indicated that the Petitioner 
"worked withl las a leading co-host of our show I from 
13 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
14 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
6 
August 2011 to November 2013, then in 2015, and then again from 2019 to March 2020. He was the 
second male co-host in the history of the show .... He was a leading host throughout the entire 
duration of his work with us." She further stated: "When the production team was shooting the show, 
[the Petitioner] often improvised, creating memorable moments that became the heart of our show .... 
He worked very hard, and was an integral part of our team's 'brain' during brainstorming sessions 
about next episodes." Whilel !discussed the Petitioner's role as co-host for thel I 
I I show, she did not provide specific, detailed information demonstrating the nature of the 
Petitioner's leading or critical role for 15 Furthermore, the record lacks 
evidence showing that ________ has a distinguished reputation. 
Likewise, regarding the Petitioner's involvement with the September 
2020 and April 2021 letters froml I the company's general manager, also discussed 
the Petitioner's work as TV host/presenter ofl I In his September 2020 letterO I I asserted that the Petitioner was the "creative visionary behind its lasting success" and that 
he "set the tone for the success of the show on our channel for years to come." Additionally, in his 
April 2021 letter, lstated that "[i]n his role of a TV host, [the Petitioner] always used his 
one-of-a-kind artistic talent, memorable sense of humor, and his unique way of making audiences 
engaged .... Inl I show, his influence was so strong that even after he left the show 
temporarily ... there was a very positive 'leftover effect."' Whilel I further contended 
that the Petitioner has "contributed significantly to increasing our channel's brand recognition and our 
profits," the record does not include television ratings data or company financial statements to 
corroborate his claim. I H also stated that the Petitioner "created and produced his own TV 
shows such as I (2014 ), I I (2016-2019), and I I The 
Petitioner, however, has not shown that his role as co-host or producer for the aforementioned 
television shows constitutes a leading or critical role forl Nor has the 
Petitioner presented evidence showing that the company has a distinguished reputation. 
The record also includes October 2020 and April 2021 letters from I I the mayor of 
the I I explaining how the Petitioner has assisted "in the development and 
implementation of the City strategy" on youth programs. In his October 2020 letter,I I 
indicated that the Petitioner was invited "to be a representative of I youth and the liaison 
between our young city residents and municipal authorities." Furthermore, in his April 2021 letter, 
I I stated that the Petitioner "conducts regular meetings with the city's youth to listen and 
to deliver to us their concerns -and to suggest proposals for the City Council to work on in relation 
to the needs of the city's youth." I I also asserted that, with respect to the cit 's tourism 
and recreation programs, the Petitioner "filmed a video about the city of I called I I in which he showed the sites of the city, including the coast ofth __ 
Thanks to [the Petitioner's] video, we were able to attract a lot of tourists from different parts of 
Ukraine and even from foreign countries." I I however, did not provide specific data, 
nor does the record include other corroborating evidence, showing that the Petitioner's video affected 
the number of tourists visiting the city. Whilel I indicated that the Petitioner has 
contributed to the city's youth programs, tourism, and cultural life, his statements are not sufficient to 
15 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role forl lwas leading or critical. For example, the record 
does not show that the Petitioner served in a leadership position or that he was responsible for the 
successes or outcomes of the city's operations or financial standing. In addition, the Petitioner has not 
offered evidence indicating that the I has a distinguished reputation. 
With respect to the Petitioner's role for the Ukrainian Soccer Clubl I he submitted a 
letter signed but the individual who authored the letter is not identified. 
The letter stated that the Petitioner has supported the team by attending matches, visiting training 
camp, bonding with players, mentioning the club during a I I episode, participating in 
charity auctions, and sending encouraging video messages to the team. Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how serving in the aforementioned roles shows his leading position forj I nor 
did he establish how his role resulted in critical or essential outcomes for the team. 
Additionally, the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE included a letter from 
head of marketing atj I stating that in "the winter of 2020, [the Petitioner] became the 
face of our brand in Ukraine and the celebrity brand ambassador for th brand .... So far, [the 
Petitioner] has starred in commercials for our winter 2020, spring 2021 and summer 2021 collections." 
The Petitioner's role forl I however, post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, 
however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
Regarding the Petitioner's role for the I I television show, he provided a 
letter from the show's producer, I discussing his work as the show's host. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), however, requires an individual to perform in a leading or 
critical role for "organizations or establishments." Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 
"organization" as an "association, society" or "an administrative and functional structure (such as a 
business or a political party)." It defines "establishment" as "something established" (such as a 
"church, a permanent civil or military organization, a place of business or residence with its 
furnishings and staff, a public or private institution"). See Merriam-Webster Dictionary's definition 
of both "organization" and "establishment." The Petitioner has not established that a television show 
constitutes an organization or establishment. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that I I I I has a distinguished reputation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the individual's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that an individual has performed 
in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet 
this criterion. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the 
individual's s commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 16 
16 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
8 
The Petitioner presented the April 2021 letter from I I of ________ 
production studio as evidence for this criterion. She indicated that her company "owes the tremendous 
commercial success of ourl I TV production I I to [ the Petitioner's] contributions, 
and that thanks to his original talent and expertise ... I I became one of the topl I 
shows in Ukraine and Russia of all times, based on viewership and brand recognition." The record, 
however, does not include independent television ratings reports, objective viewership data for 
programming, or over evidence to corroborate! lclaim. 17 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a separate statement froml !asserting that her company 
paid the Petitioner "$11,000.00 (eleven thousand) U.S. dollars for 1 (one episode) of the TV show 
from #412 to #430, the total number of which is 19 (e isodes ," but this compensation report reflects 
the Petitioner's remuneration for filming ______ episodes rather than the commercial 
success of his work in the performing arts as shown by "sales" or "receipts." He also provided 
Y ouTube screenshots for various 2011-2013 episodes of I I ( seasons two through 
seven) showing "views" for each episode ranging from 334,957 to 2,391,647. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that these "views" of the show on You Tube translate to his commercial 
successes relative to others in the industry in the form of "sales" or "receipts." The evidence presented 
here is insufficient to establish that the volume of sales or television revenue forl I 
reflects the Petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the 
performing arts. Accordingly, he has not established that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, 
original contributions, leading or critical role, or commercial successes. Although the Petitioner 
claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve these issues. 18 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
17 The September 2020 and April 2021 letters from I ofl I indicated that I I show was broadcast on his company's channel. While I asserted that the Petitioner has 
"contributed significantly to increasing our channel's brand recognition and our profits," the record does not include 
television ratings data or company financial statements to corroborate his claim. 
18 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20828278 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
documenting his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting 
at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a competitive athlete and coach in Brazilian jiu-jitsu and has 
successfully competed in in the I I category at regional, national, and international jiu-jitsu 
competitions. Because the Petitioner does not claim, and the record does not establish, that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he 
must satisfy at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner 
initially claimed that he could meet five of these criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require international achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the five claimed 
criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
meets these two criteria based on his receipt of medals at IBJJF World I Jiu-Jitsu Championship 
and Brazilian National Championship events and based on his documented participation as a referee 
for jiu-jitsu competitions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria based on his membership in 
an association that requires outstanding achievements of its members and based on his performance 
in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner does 
not pursue his initial claim that he meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that meets this 
2 
criterion. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not further address it in this decision. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the.field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the International 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) as a certified black belt. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that he is a member of an association in his field, and that membership in the association 
is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his black belt certificate issued by I 
ofl I Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Team in January 2019. The initial evidence also included an 
excerpt from the IBJJF publication titled General System of Graduation. Article 5.1 of this publication 
lists the "IBJJF Basic Requirements to Obtain the Black Belt Certificate and Degrees," which states 
that an applicant for an IBJJF black belt certificate or degree: 
• Must be affiliated to IBJJF in the current year 
• Can not be an athlete with provisional graduation 
• Must provide First Aid or CPR course certificate 
• Must attend an IBJJF Referee Course within a 12-month period before the date of the 
request 
• Must be a professor or assistant professor at an academy affiliated with IBJJF or an 
athlete practicing jiu-jitsu in an IBJJF-registered academy who was graduated by a 
professor who is a black belt with at least 2 degrees certified by IBJJF. 
Article 4.1.3 of this IBJJF publication further address the degree system for athletes who have achieved 
a black belt ranking. It states that "promotion to a new degree in the black belt is only valid starting 
from the issuance of an IBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic requirements present in 
Article 5." 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included articles identifying IBJFF as "one of the most prestigious 
and recognized jiu-jitsu competition organizations" and "the most important and dominant federation 
in [the] sport." The Petitioner also submitted two academic papers (a journal article and a master's 
thesis) whose authors state that the Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt is recognized as one of the most 
difficult black belts to achieve in martial arts, often requiring a decade or more of dedicated training. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
3 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director observed that the black belt certificate alone was 
insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies all elements of this criterion, and emphasized 
that, although the Petitioner submitted information regarding IBJJF's belt graduation system, he did 
not provide evidence of his IBJJF membership. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the Petitioner's member page on IBJJF 
showing that he is a certified black belt member. The Petitioner also re-submitted excerpts from the 
IBJJF General System of Graduation publication. In a supporting letter, the Petitioner emphasized 
that a certified black belt represents a high level of membership in IBJJF and that the information 
contained in the IBJJF publication is sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that 
the achievement of membership in IBJJF with a black belt certification requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
The Director acknowledged the requirements for black belt certification set forth at Article 5.1 of the 
IBJJF General System of Graduation but determined that those requirements do not discuss in detail 
what is required to become a member of the association and therefore do not show that membership 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly weigh the submitted evidence. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that "[regular] membership in IBJJF is something that can be applied for 
through their website and does not require extraordinary ability. It is the obtaining of the rank of black 
belt through the IBJJF is what requires extraordinary ability." The Petitioner also submits new 
evidence on appeal, including: his IBJJF Black Belt Certificate issued on I I 2021; additional 
excerpts from the IBJJF's General System of Graduation; and a chart that summarizes the IBJJF 
graduation system. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this requirement 
based on his IBJJF membership as a certified black belt. As a preliminary matter, we note that the 
evidence submitted on appeal indicates that the IBJJF recognized the Petitioner's completion of all 
requirements for his certified black belt in 2021, more than one year after he filed this petition. 
While the Petitioner previously submitted his black belt certificate issued in 2019 by the academy 
where he trains in Brazil, the record does not establish that this certificate was registered with or 
recognized by IBJJF at the time or that it automatically resulted in his membership as an IBJJF­
certified black belt. 
The IBJJF's General Systems of Graduation indicates that the federation distinguishes between 
academy-issued black belt graduation certificates and IBJJF-issued black belt diplomas. For example, 
Article 4.1.3 states that "every promotion to a new degree in the black belt is only valid starting from 
the issuance of an IBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic requirements present in Article 
5." Therefore, there is insufficient evidence that the Petitioner had an IBJJF-certified black belt 
membership as of the date of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 
Further, the stated "Basic Requirements" to obtain an IBJJF black belt certificate include submission of 
an application as well as evidence of "affiliation to IBJJF," completion of a first aid or CPR course, 
attendance at an IBJJF Referee course, and evidence of practicing or teaching jiu-jitsu at an IBJJF­
affiliated academy for a specific period. Based on these stated requirements, receipt of initial 
membership as a black belt-certified member ofIBJJF does not involve a process by which one must be 
judged as having outstanding achievements by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner highlights Article 5.2.1 of the IBJJF General System of Graduation, which states that 
"the Black belt certification graduation for each new degree is an individual process that depends on 
a through analysis by the IBJJF including examination of documents .... " However, there is no 
evidence that the Petitioner has been granted any certificate from the IBJJF beyond the initial black 
belt certificate or that his membership has been reviewed according to these requirements, which 
appear to be applicable only to additional black belt degrees. 2 Further, it is unclear what is entailed 
by the IBJJF's "thorough analysis" of documents or what criteria are considered in such review, such 
that we could conclude that additional degrees require outstanding achievements. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that acquiring the advanced knowledge and skills necessary 
for black belt certification in jiu-jitsu is a demanding process that requires years of training and 
dedication, and that earning a black belt represents a significant achievement for practitioners of the 
sport. However, for the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the 
Petitioner has a membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C .F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has performed in a leading or 
critical role for an or anization with a distin uished reputation and referenced letters from 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Academy in Brazil), 
(owner of in Utah), andl (a Utah-
based Judo coach and special education teacher). 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states the Director's determination was "in error" but he does not further 
address how the previously submitted evidence satisfies all elements of this criterion or identify any 
specific errors in the Director's analysis of this criterion. Rather, he appears to suggest that the 
Director overlooked evidence that he served in a leading or critical role for a Brazilian 
2 Based on the IBJJF Degree System described at A1iicle 4.1.3 of the General System of Graduation, "the first degree can 
only be requested after a minimum of three (3) years of the black belt graduation" and "every promotion to a new degree 
in the black belt is only valid starting from the issuance of an TBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic 
requirements present in Article 5." Because the Petitioner's TBJJF black belt diploma was issued in 2021, the record 
reflects that he would not become eligible to apply for a first-degree black belt certification from TBJJF until 2024. 
3 The record reflects that the letters from and I lwere submitted as evidence that the Petitioner intends 
to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his work will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States, as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. While it appears that business employed the 
Petitioner as a jiu-jitsu coach and instructor at the time of the RFE response, the Petitioner did not claim to meet the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his employment with I I 
5 
jiu-jitsu academy in lutah. We observe that the record contains two letters from 
owner of I both of which were submitted to establish 
that the Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his service as a 
referee for tournaments hosted by I 
Specifically, the Petitioner states, "[w]e understand that it may not have been initially presented as 
clearly as possible the role that [the Petitioner] plays atl land how it would be considered 
leading or critical." The Petitioner indicates that he is submitting "an updated letter from I 
more carefully outlining [his] role in their organization"; however, the submission on appeal does not 
include an additional letter from this organization or any other new evidence related tol I 
The Petitioner has re-submitted a letter froml I dated February 26, 2020, which was 
initially provided at the time of filing. 
The previously submitted letters froml lconfirm that the Petitioner served as a referee for 
three one-day tournaments hosted by this academy between I I 2018 and I 2020 and 
emphasize that referees are volunteers and not employees of the company. I states that 
his academy has a regional reputation for hosting highly competitive jiu-jitsu tournaments. The 
Petitioner maintains that, as a referee, he "plays a critical role in the success of the competitions that 
I I a distinguished organization, hosts on a regular basis." 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 4 Here the statements provided by I do not provide detailed and 
probative information addressing how the Petitioner's role as a volunteer jiu-jitsu referee for three 
one-day tournaments has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
I !activities. Without information and evidence documenting the impact and importance 
of any work the Petitioner has conducted forl l the record does not demonstrate the critical 
nature of his role for this organization. Further, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating 
that I I enjoys a distinguished reputation, as the evidence is limited to letters from the 
organization and photographs from matches refereed by the Petitioner. 
The record reflects that, prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner claimed that he met this 
criterion based on his role as a coach, instructor and competitor with 
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Academy inl I Brazil. As noted, the Petitioner has not specifically 
contested the Director's determination this he does not meet this criterion based on his role with this 
organization. Nevertheless, we observe that the record does not contain sufficient evidence to establish 
that this academy has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner emphasized the "excellence" of the 
academy's results in competition, but the supporting evidence was limited to articles from unidentified 
newspapers reporting on the results of the team's athletes. This media coverage appears to be local in 
nature and this evidence alone is insufficient to establish that the organization or establishment is 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20612235 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a performer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner had established that he met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
meeting the requisite three evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record did not 
establish that he had the necessary level of acclaim and expertise to qualify as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten crite1ia 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed in the United States as a erformer for the I I He was a member of the Russian national team for man ears and earned a 
silver team medal in the 2009 I I Championships on the The record 
includes contracts for his continued employment as a performer with 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the requirements of the following 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3): 
• (i) 
• (iv) 
• (vii) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field 
Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
Display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
Upon review of the evidence, we agree with the Director that the record establishes that the Petitioner 
meets these three evidentiary criteria, and therefore has met the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination that his team silver medal in I I I at the 2009 Championships does not qualify as a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally-recognized award), as well as his conclusion regarding five of the ten 
evidentiary criteria. However, once a petitioner shows, through either evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria, that they met the initial evidence 
requirement, we move on to consider the totality of the evidence in the second partofthe adjudication, 
the final merits determination. We will therefore not consider the Petitioner's arguments on appeal as 
2 
they relate to these criteria, but will instead review them m the context of the final merits 
determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits detennination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard as an artistic performer. 
We first note that while much of the evidence relates to the Petitioner's career as an athlete, he intends 
to continue to be employed as a performer in the United States. Guidance from the USCJS Policy 
Manualrelates to this point: 
Some of the most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the 
beneficiary's intent is to come to the United States and be employed as an athletic coach 
or manager. Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in 
general are not in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes 
have gone on to be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise.1 
Although the above refers only to the situation in which an athlete has transitioned to a coaching 
career, the record indicates that while a perforn1er relies on different sets of skills than a gymnast, 
many extraordinary gymnasts have gone on to careers as performers with I 2 We will 
therefore apply the same analysis in the Petitioner's case. 
The record shows that as an athlete, the Petitioner was a member of the Russian national! I 
team I from 2003 to 2016, although in severalofthoseyearshewasamember 
of the junior team or the reserve team. His membership is confirmed by a letter from the head coach 
of the team, as well as copies of the team rosters for each of those years. This evidence also 
demonstrates that admission to the national I team is highly competitive and is achieved by 
advancing through three rounds of competition and a final selection process, and that the Russian team 
enjoyed success while the Petitioner was a member. 
1 6 USC IS Policy Manual F.2( A)(2) httns·//www uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6.-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Several articles indicate that lperfmmers aref01merathletes, including some who have competed 
in andmedaledatthe Olympics. 
3 
In addition, during his membership on the Russian national team, the evidence shows that the 
Petitioner successfully competed in continental and top-level international competitions, most notably 
between 2008 and 2010. Although he competed in several I events as a member of the team, 
he won medals in international competition only on I which is not included 
in Olympid I competitions. Specifically, he received his most prestigious award at the 2009 I Championships as a member of the team awarded a silver medal, but also received individual 
and team medals in the I Championships in 2008 and 2010. While he continued to 
successfully compete in national competitions from 2011 to 2013, he did not medal again in a major 
international competition until 2014, when he was a member ofthd lteam that 
took the gold medal at the !championships. The record shows that while he continued to 
successfully compete in national and international competitions from 2014 to 2017, he did not 
participate in major competitions again in his career. 
The evidence summarized above is sufficient to establish that the Petitioner achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim from 2008 through 2014 as an athlete, and was one of the few at the 
top of his field for at least a portion of that period. He then began his career as a performer in 2017, 
approximately three years before filing the instant petition, which shows the recency of this acclaim 
as an athlete per the USCIS Policy Manual. As he now intends to continue working in the U.S. as a 
perfom1er, we must evaluate whether he has sustained his acclaim in that field. Upon review of the 
record, we conclude that he has not done so. 
In support of his acclaim as a erformer with I the Petitioner relies on two sets of 
evidence: his role in the show and his salary. Regarding the former, he submitted a letter 
regarding his role inl I from ____ Senior A1iistic Director atl While 
he describes the role played by the Petitioner as a leadin one, he does not ex lain this statement other 
than to complement his acrobatic skills on the Further while 
stating that the Petitioner's work contributes to the artistic and commercial successo I I does not indicate that the Petitioner's addition to the show had a direc impact on that 
success. 
Another letter from I employee was submitted byl Senior Advisor 
in the talent department. He confirms that the Petitioner was recruited to las part of a revamp 
of the show in 2018, specifically for th and also states that his abilities 
as a I allowed for the inclusion of new tricks. als........ states that the Petitioner 
plays a variety of roles in the show, including the act an UoJ..L. which he states is 
a leading character in the show. However, we note that neither _____ own press release, 
or any of the reviews ofl I included in the record, mention the Petitioner or the I I role. 3 
While all of this evidence shows that the Petitioner is one of many talented performers making up the 
cast of the show, it does not indicate that he is singled out as a star performerforthe show orforl I I I or has otherwise received sustained national or international acclaim based on this role. 
Regarding his salary, the Petitioner submitted evidence that in 2020 and 2021 he was compensated at 
the rate of $154 .00 per show. However, he then presented two different calculations ofhis hourly rate. 
3 One article from the website www.danceinforma.com dated August 8, 2011 includes a photo captioned I but this photo shows three characters, and the article makes nofurthermentionot1._ _______ 
4 
He initially stated that from the time he is required to report to work each night through the end of 1he 
second show is five and one-half hours, making his wages $56 per hour. However, on appeal he states 
that since each show lasts 90 minutes, his hourly wage should be considered to be $108.00 per hour. 
Since he initially indicated that his employer requires him to be on duty for two and one-half hours 
before the shows begin, we will consider the lower figure as representative of his actual wages. 
For purposes of comparison, the Petitioner previously submitted evidence showing the mean hourly 
wage for the occupation "Miscellaneous Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers" 
from the website of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which in the I I area was $49 .84 
per hour. On appeal, he submits additional evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor's ONet 
website which shows that in 2021, the highest 10% of workers in this occupation earned in excess of 
$100.00 per hour. We note that while the Petitioner's hourly age of $56 per hour is above the mean 
wage, it is well below that of top earners, and therefore does not reflect acclaim. 
In addition, even if we were to consider the higher hourly wage that the Petitioner claims on appeal, 
which would place him among the top 10% earners in this occupational grouping, the SOC code 2 7-
2090 assigned to this occupation group is a catch-all which includes a wide variety of occupations not 
included under other, more specific SOC codes such as those for actors, athletes and dancers. This 
can be seen in the BLS's listing of industries which have the highest levels of employment in this 
occupation group, which includes motion picture and video; independent artists, writers and 
performers; drinking places; and performing arts companies. The data presented therefore does not 
provide a sufficient or accurate basis for the comparison of the Petitioner's wages to those of other 
artistic or circus performers. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner's employer "is the number one _______ 
company in the world," employing 1300 performers like him. 4 Butthe record lacks evidence showing 
that his earnings place him amongst the small percentage of I performers at the top of 
the field.I I writes that the Petitioner earns "annual remuneration of$ 72,996," a figure 
based upon the Petitioner's performance in all 4 7 4 scheduled shows ofl I and that this is 
"substantially above the in dust av era e for a trampolinist." Butthe record does not include evidence 
to support this statement and does not indicate how the Petitioner's earnings compare 
to that of othe _____ performers. Also, the record contains a 2016 article posted on the 
CNBC website which includes a quote from a circus industry expert that "An award-winning artist. .. 
might earn in the low six-figures with benefits." After consideration of all of the evidence relating to 
the Petitioner's earnings, we find that it does not show that they place him amongst the very few at 1he 
top of his field, or otherwise indicate that he has enjoyed national or international acclaim as an artistic 
performer. 
The record shows that the Petitioner was a world-class I athlete with sustained international 
acclaim, and competed successfully at the international level relatively recently. However, because 
he intends to continue working in the United States as an artistic performer, he must show that he has 
continued that level of acclaim in this related field. As explained above, although he is a talented 
performer and an impmiant part of I show, the record lacks extensive 
4 From the article from the website www.mentalfloss.com datedc=] 
2019. 
5 
documentation showing that this work has garnered him acclaim at the national or international level, 
or that he is one of the few artistic performers among the small percentage at the top of that field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21983129 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 14, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner appealed that decision, and we withdrew that decision and remanded the matter to the 
Director in February 2021, stating that the Director had not sufficiently considered some elements of 
the Petitioner's claims. The Director denied the petition for the second time in December 2021, stating 
that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the threshold criteria, instead of the required three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily applyto the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student to study for a master of fine arts 
degree in animation atl I College of Art and Design. After completing that degree, he changed 
to H-1B nonimmigrant status in 2015 to work as creative manager for his design company. In 2022, he 
changed hisnonimmigrant status to H-4, dependent of anH-1 nonimmigrant. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner also claimed to have submitted comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
In the second denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining 
to display and high remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria 
relating to prizes and leading or critical roles. He does not dispute the Director's determinations 
regarding memberships, commercial success, and comparable evidence. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
waived appeal regarding those issues. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the two criteria 
relating to display and remuneration. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We note that the Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. His response to a request 
for evidence (RFE) mentioned his involvement in an award-winning project. At that point, the Director 
issued a second RFE which was largely limited to the question of whether the Petitioner himself had 
received the award. 
The Petitioner claims two awards under this criterion: 
• Finalist, I . IAwardsJ I category 
• 2018 Silver Award for Craft-Cinematography from 
In our February 2021 remand order, we took no position as to whether either claimed award meets 1he 
requirements of the regulatory criterion. Instead, we determined that the Director had applied incorrect 
standards, and instructed the Director to "reevaluate this evidence to determine whether the Petitioner 
was a recipient of an award, as well as whether any awards he received were for excellence in the field of 
computer graphics, visual effects and animation." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met 
these requirements. We agree, for the reasons explained below. 
The Petitioner acknowledges that he worked on a projectthat was a finalist for a I Award, but which 
did not win that award. The Petitioner asse1ts that "being a finalist for [a] prestigious award ought to be 
considered under 8 CPR§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)." The language of the regulation, however, requires "receipt of 
... prizes or awards." The Petitioner cites no support for the contention that finalists who did not actually 
receive an award should, nevertheless, be considered to have this requirement. A nomination that did not 
result in receipt of a prize or award does not satisfy the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 2 
Fmihem1ore, the Petitioner had previously acknowledged that the adve1iising campaign in question did 
not become a finalist for a I until after the petition's filing date. A petitioner must meet all eligibility 
requirements at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). The award nomination had not yet occurred at 
the time of filing, and therefore it cannot contribute to a finding that the Petitioner was eligible when he 
filed the petition. 3 
Regarding the Award from printouts from the awarding entity's 
website show that the named recipient was the marketing and adve1iising agency that produced a short 
promotional film on behalf of the Canadian Olympic Committee. As the regulation is worded, the focus 
should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of 
the awards orprizes. 6 USCISPolicy ManualF.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The web page about that specific award lists dozens of credits for individuals and agencies that 
participated in making the film. The Petitioner correctly asse1is that an individual might win an award as 
2 If the proceeding had reached a final merits determination, then we would have taken nominations into consideration, 
because nominations are a form ofrecognition even if they do not rise to the level of prizes or a wards. But because we 
have not rendered a final merits detenninationin this case, we neednot explore this issue in depth. 
3 If the Petitioner had established eligibility as of the time offiling, then we would have consideredlaterevidence in the 
context of whether he remained eligible while the petition was pending, which 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) also requires. 
3 
part of a team, and need not be the only named recipient. Nevertheless, the page does not indicate that 
all the credited individuals and agencies individually received awards; the list of credits on the website is 
not, itself, an award. Participation in an award-winning endeavor is not the same thing as receipt of an 
award. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established his receipt of the award. 
Fmihermore, the prize or award must be for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. The web 
printout credits the Petitioner as the project's "CG [computer graphics] Artist." The submitted 
information does not indicate that the award was for excellence in computer graphics. 
The Petitioner contends that the long list of credits shows that "the awards were collective efforts and all 
the contributors were recognized." But the award does not recognize the collective efforts of all the 
participants. Rather, the website printouts show that there are several different categories of award, such 
as "Craft" and "Design," each with several subcategories. The award given to the Petitioner's employer 
is in the "Craft" category, and the ''Cinematography" subcategory. The website indicates that the 
"Cinematography" subcategory "[r]ecogniz[es] the art and science of beautiful film composition­
framing, lighting, angles and movement." Thus, the award does not recognize the overall product of all 
the participants' cooperation; it specifically recognizes the cinematography. The Petitioner has not shown 
that his computer-generated artwork played a role in the selection of the winner. This information further 
weighs against the argument that the Petitioner himself actually received the award. 
There is no indication that all the individuals credited on the website were involved in the film's 
cinematography. Apart from the Petitioner as the "CG Artist," other credited participants include 
"Copywriters," "Music," "Sound Design/Final Mix," and "Account Supervisor." Such roles have no 
demonstrated relevance to cinematography, and many of these roles fall within other award categories 
and subcategories, such as "Animation," "Editing," and "Sound Design" within the "Craft" categmy, and 
"Graphics" in the "Design" category. 
Given the above information, the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to show that the Silver I Award for "Craft- Cinematography" is an award that he personally received for excellence 
in his field of endeavor, as required by the language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3)(i). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asserted that "[a]s Creative Director [for his design company], he has played critical and 
leading roles in a number of productions for client companies ... on high level media projects for major 
corporations such as II II I andl I The named 
brands did not directly engage the Petitioner's services. Rather, those companies had contracted with 
various advertising agencies to produce advertising and marketing content, and the agencies, in tum, 
subcontracted some design work to the Petitioner. 
4 
Individuals from these agencies provided letters, providing details about the Petitioner's digital modeling 
work on various projects. For example, "he was solely responsible formodelingtexturing, animating and 
lighting [a] 30 second video" for I I he provided digital modeling for a television and social 
media campaign forl I and he "model[ ed] the environments and characters" for al I I !promotion "while the other team was focused on animation." These letters indicate some degree 
of demand for the Petitioner's digital modeling services, but they do not establish that his contracted roles 
on these projects were leading or critical for any organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. 
The Director issued an RFE, stating that the submitted letters did not show how the Petitioner's roles were 
leading or critical for any "organization or establishment as a whole." 
In response, the Petitioner noted that the USCIS Policy Manual does not require an individual's role to be 
critical to entire organizations or establishments. Rather, it requires that an individual "has performed in 
a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization 
or establishment." The Petitioner asserted that he satisfied this requirement because he "has been 
responsible for critical campaigns and projects for distinguished media studios serving big name clientele 
for organizations in his field of endeavor." Individual campaigns and projects, however, are not divisions 
or departments of an organization or establishment. 
New letters submitted in response to the RFE provide more details about the Petitioner's modeling work 
on various projects, but these letters do not establish that how the Petitioner's work was critical to any 
organization or department or division thereof. 4 Assertions that his roles were critical to particular 
projects do not satisfy the criterion, because a project is not a department or division of an organization 
or establishment. The letters show that, on any given project, the Petitioner was part of a creative team 
that involved varying numbers of other artists and technicians performing assigned roles. The Petitioner 
has not established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments or 
divisions thereof. Participation in a successful project is not automatically or presumptively a critical role 
for the organization, or a department or division of the organization, that unde1iook the project. 
We need not discuss, at length, the related but separate question of whether the advertising agencies have 
a distinguished reputation. 5 We note, nevertheless, that the Petitioner submits no evidence to address this 
point, relying instead on the prominence of some of the agencies' clients. The Petitioner asserts that he 
"has usedhis extraordinary abilities to make a difference to animation projects of major US corporations." 
Those corporations hiredadve1iising and marketing agencies for specific promotions, and those agencies, 
in turn, hired the Petitioner as a subcontractor to work on one aspect of their campaigns. The Petitioner 
has not shown that his indirect connection to the "major US corporations"as a subcontractor to advertising 
agencies amounts to a critical role for those corporations or divisions or departments thereof. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with regard to the requirements of this criterion. 
4 We also note that many of the projects discussed in the RFE response took place after the petition's filing date, and 
therefore cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has had some success providing image modeling for 
promotional use by prominent clients, but he has not shown that the recognition of his work rises to 
the required level of sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20899882 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a wedding photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After operating his own photographic studio in South Africa for over a decade, the Petitioner entered the 
United States in 2018 as an 0-1 B nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability in the arts.1 Since 2018, he has 
served as creative director of photography for I in New York, which photographs 
corporate events. He also continues to operate his own wedding photography business. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work of 
others and display of his work. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the other five claimed 
criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only 
two of the claimed criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner has documented his receipt of various awards. On appeal, he limits his arguments to what 
he calls his "most important award," the 2017 Wedding Photographer of the Year Award from 
I 1.2 The prize included a trophy and several thousand dollars' worth of 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 B nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability, but the record of proceeding for the 
a pp roved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the same as 
those in the present proceeding, orwhetherthenonimmigrant petition was approved in error. Also, the nonimmigrant and 
immigrantcategorieshavedifforentdefinitions and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of 
arts" in the non immigrant 0-IB category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0 )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, 
"extraordinary ability" reflects thatthe individual is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field. 
2 Because the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding his other claimed a wards, he has waived 
appeal on those issues. SccMattcrojR-A-M-, 25 I&NDec. 657, 658n.2 (BIA2012) (stating that when a filing party fails 
2 
photographic equipment. The executive director of stated: "The Awards aims 
to recognize great work and provide an accolade for the best work in the industry .... The awards 
receive 5,000 photographic entries fromeachannual contest from over 1000 photographers ... in Africa." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested evidence of "the national or international 
significance of the awards or prizes." In response, the Petitioner stated: is is considered 
the most prestigious photography/cinematography competition in Africa." The passive voice of this 
sentence does not establish who holds that opinion. Letters from within the unsupported by 
additional evidence, do not necessarily reflect a national or international consensus in the field. 
The Petitioner added: "to show the significance of the awards we provide several articles and website 
coverage of past winners of this national competition." Most of the accompanying materials are from 
I I own website. The Petitioner also submitted a printout from a blog on another photographer's 
personal website, in which she listed her award as one of her "favorite achievements." Printouts 
from other websites, some of them unidentified, appear to be promotional in nature, including materials 
about a trade convention organized by the same individuals behind thee=] 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not "submitmajortrade publications 
or other major media conveying that the awards are nationally or internationallyreco gnized for excellence 
in the field of endeavor beyond the awarding entities." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
impermissibly imposed a new requirement beyond the wording of the regulations. 
Evidence of an a ward's recognition need not take the form of "major media," but the Director is correct 
that recognition of the award should extend "beyond the awarding entities" to effectively demonstrate its 
national or international significance The burden is on the Petitioner to establish the national or 
international significance of the prizes and awards. If a prize does not receive media attention when 
awarded, then there must be some other means to show the recognition afforded to it. Assertions by the 
about its own reputation and recognition do not suffice in this regard. The Petitioner has not 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish national or international recognition orl I awards outside 
the itself. 
We note the submitted evidence about the value of the prize, but the Petitioner submitted no basis to 
compare the prize to others in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner has shown that a number of companies 
in the industry sponsor the competition and related trade exposition, but the Petitioner offers no support 
for the assertion that "[l]arge multinational companies such as these do not sponsor small, unimportant 
competitions." The Petitioner, who bears the burden of proof: did not submit any corroborating evidence, 
such as statements from the sponsoring companies, or cite any source for this claim. As such, it appears 
to be an unsupported assumption rather than a statement of demonstrable fact. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US.Atty Gen., 40 I F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed several memberships, but limits his arguments on appeal to his 
membership in the International Society of Professional Wedding Photographers (ISPWP). A printout 
from the ISPWP' s website lists five requirements for membership: 
Experience Applicants musthavephotographedaminimum of50weddings as the 
primary in-charge photographer. ... 
Talent Applicants must submit their website and wedding galleries forreview 
and evaluation. The online galleries must demonstrate artistic and 
technical ability .... 
Integrity Applicants must have no outstanding complaints with consumer 
protection organizations such as the Better Business Bureau. 
Professionalism Applicants must agree to operate in accordance with the ISPWP Code 
of Conduct. ... 
References Applicants must be sponsored by an existing ISPWP member, or they 
must submit two client references and two wedding photographer 
references. This provides evidence as to their professionalism, 
reputation, and experience. 
The website further indicates that applicants "have to be voted in by current members." 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not established that the ISPWP requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. In response, the 
executive directorofthe ISPWP stated that membership is "limited to the best wedding photographers in 
the world." The official repeated essentially the same membership requirements quoted above. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the listed membership requirements are not outstanding 
achievements, and the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge 
the achievements of applicants for membership in the ISPWP. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "There are a plethoraofhoops to jump through in order to be accepted 
into this organization," such that "it becomes obvious to the reader that the criterion for membership is 
absolutely tantamount to requiring 'outstanding achievements of its members.'" The Petitioner does not 
address the requirement that the achievements must be judged by recognized national or international 
experts. 
The Petitioner also notes that the USCIS Po licy Manual names the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) 
as an example of an association with qualifying membership requirements. The Petitioner asserts that the 
NAS "requires candidates to be nominated by an academy member," which "is the EXACT situation with 
regards to Beneficiary's ISPWP membership" ( emphasis in the original). But the record does not 
establish a strong similarity. Materials in the record show that an applicant for ISPWP membership may 
have a member sponsor, but can substitute two letters of reference from clients or other photographers 
4 
(who need not be ISPWP members themselves) instead of member sponsorship. The Petitioner does not 
establish that the NAS solicits applications for membership, as the ISPWP does, or that the NAS's 
membership requirements are comparable to experience and adherence to a code of ethics. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown the ISPWP' s membership requirements rise 
to the level of outstanding achievements as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner 
has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The published material submitted under this criterion should be about the person, relating to the person's 
work in the field. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the person's products or 
promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be published material about the 
beneficiary. The person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field 
and mentions the person in connection to the work may beconsideredmaterial "about'' the person relating 
to the person's work. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted copies of pages from I I using the Petitioner's photographs as examples of proper posing and angles. The Petitioner is 
one of about 60 credited contributors to the book. The Petitioner also submitted printouts of several social 
media and blog posts using his photographs. While the Petitioner received credit for his photographs, the 
book and posts are not about him. He is not the principal subject of the materials, nor do those materials 
include a substantial discussion of his work. 
The Petitioner also photographed the wedding of a media personality. Social media posts and screen 
captures in the record indicate that the wedding was at least partially televised, and the Petitioner was 
credited as the photographer, but the wedding itself was clearly the subject of the coverage, and there is 
no indication that the coverage included substantial discussion of the Petitioner and his work as a 
photographer. 
The Petitioner features heavily in online videos and podcast interviews. These videos are on channels 
operated byl I which is a retailer of photographic equipment: I I which engaged the Petitioner 
as a brand ambassador, orl land the Petitioner himself. The Petitioner has not submitted 
transcripts from these videos, but given their sources, they appear to be promotional in nature. A letter 
froml I sales manager for thel I indicates that brand ambassadors "represent the 
brand of and their roducts," and that the Petitioner worked with the sales manager "to bring 
awareness of the ____ within the province." Marketing materials created for the pmpose of 
selling the person's products or promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be 
published material about the beneficiary. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The situation 
here appears to be comparable, in that the Petitioner received this covera e not because of his own work 
as a photographer, but because of a promotional arrangement with re · onal sales 
manager confirmed that the purpose of these appearances was "to promote _______ 
5 
I The Petitioner also appeared on podcasts and in video interviews on various social media sites, but the 
record does not include transcripts to show the actual content of these materials. The regulation requires 
the submission of the published material itself, rather than screenshots to show that an interview took 
place. The Petitioner provides figures regarding some of these materials, for instance indicating that 948 
viewers watched an interview on the ISPWP' s Face book page, butthe Petitioner did not provide a basis 
for comparison to show that these figures are consistent with major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner appeared on a podcast, and he established that an associated 
Instagram page has nearly 34,000 followers, but he did not establish that these followers correlate to the 
number of podcast listeners. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director didnottake into consideration thatthenature of published 
media has evolved, and now includes a great deal of online content. But the Director did not state that 
the submittedmaterialsdo notqualifyas "published materials" simply because they appearedonline. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the submitted materials meet the regulatory 
requirements, and that the inclusion of the Petitioner's photographs in published materials about 
individual weddings does not make those materials about the Petitioner. Nothing submitted on appeal 
overcomes the identified deficiencies. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(viii). 
For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or depar1ment of the organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. 
Initially, the Petitioner asserted that he performed in critical roles as a brand ambassador for I and 
forl I a manufacturer of camera straps. On appeal, he does not pursue the claim regarding 
sales manager stated that the company's brand ambassadors, ca11ed0 
"represent the brand of and their products ... on a national and international and 
international platform .... I I then gets feedback on theirproductsandservices." The sales manager 
indicated that the Petitionerrepresented the brand at various trade shows and reviewed and demonstrated 
its products on social media. The sales manager stated that the Petitioner's work "helped to boost the 
sales of [certain] Photographic Equipment in South Africa
1" but he did not provide specific information 
about the Petitioner's effect on those sales. A printout from !website identifies the Petitioner as 
one of nine lofSouthAfrica." 
The sales manager's letter describes the Petitioner's promotional work but does not explain how the 
Petitioner's role was of significant impmtance to the outcome of the activities of or a division or 
department thereof. 
6 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the managing director of I ___ who stated that the Petitioner "undeniably played a critical role for our company" with his 
product reviews. The official asserts: "Each time we released a video or article with [the Petitioner's] 
reviews, we saw sales of the products endorsed by [the Petitioner] rapidly rise." This vague statement 
does not provide enough information to show a reliable correlation between the Petitioner's reviews and 
increases in sales. The information in the record indicates that the Petitioner reviewed new products, 
which would not have had a significant sales histmy before the release of the reviews. The Petitioner 
sometimes reviewed products before their general release, as shown by commentary in one printout, 
indicating that retailers were "still awaiting ... local pricing and availability information." Also, the 
record does not indicate that the Petitioner's reviews were more influential than those of other reviewers, 
including those who reviewed the products independently rather than atl I invitation. 
The Petitioner has also asserted that "his photography studio [in South Africa] undeniably has a 
distinguished reputation," because he has photo graphed celebrity weddings and his work has appeared in 
prominent publications. In the United States, the Petitioner has photographed various events on behalf of I I The record indicates that these companies have secured lucrative and sometimes 
high-profile work, and the Petitioner contends that prominent clients "can choose any photography 
studio," and therefore their selection of the Petitioner's studio andl !demonstrates 
that those entities have a distinguished reputation. But the record does not establish how and why those 
clients chose the companies, and therefore does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof to establish 
this element. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
After the Director determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion, the Petitioner asserts on 
appeal that the Director's conclusion rested in part on a misreading of the evidence, and in part on 
inconsequential technicalities. We need not explore these finer points, because review of the evidence 
shows that the Petitioner has not actually documented his salary. 
Copies of invoices and promotional materials show the rates that the Petitioner's studios billed clients in 
South Africa and the United States. In South Africa, he offered packages for 10-12 hours of photography 
for R25,000 to R50,000. Invoices from the Petitioner's more recent work in the United States show fees 
between $1250 and $6000 for "12 hours of coverage." These fees, however, cover a number of expenses 
apart from the Beneficiary's own salary. The R50,000 package, for example, included a second 
photographer, for whom the Petitioner's studio would charge R4000 if hired separately; a 30 x 40 album, 
which would cost R9000 separately; 50 "Jumbo Prints," worth RI 500; and two "Parent Albums" which 
would costR2500, along with other expenses separate from the Petitioner's salary. Clearly, the Petitioner 
would have personally received only a fraction of the total fee, and he did not document how much of his 
fee he personally received as salary. 
Salary survey documents in the record have little evidentiary weight because the Petitioner has not 
established his actual salary, and therefore the Petitioner has not provided a suitable basis for comparison. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record shows that the 
Petitioner is a successful photographer, who has attracted some prominent clients and achieved a 
degree of visibility as a brand ambassador for I I The evidence submitted, however, does not 
rise to the level of satisfying at least three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and it 
does not show that he has earned sustained national or international acclaim that places him at the top 
of his field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22145416 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a broadcast news analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, she 
did not establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a broadcast news analyst. She states that she intends to 
continue her work in broadcasting and anchoring in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could 
meet six of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that she met three of them. Specifically, the 
Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional publications or major 
media, and authorship of scholarly articles in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (vi). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in her field, and leading or critical roles with organizations that 
have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that she met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
2 
analysis fails to address most of the evidence she submitted and should be overturned or remanded for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the final merits analysis is lacking a detailed discussion 
of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence 
relating to six of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly 
addresses evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined she had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. Such evidence included multiple expert opinion letters 
that address her standing in the field, evidence related to her professional memberships, and evidence 
of her roles and contributions as a news anchor and journalist. Because the Director did not consider 
any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility for the requested classification. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20217088 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive in the oil and gas industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning a master's degree at the University of I as a Fulbright scholar, the Petitioner has 
worked for various com anies in the petroleum industry inl including !Corporation 
and Com an . Since 2017, he has been the commercial and marketing vice 
president of state-owned petroleum company. He intends "to []form a 
company in Florida to be able to build commercial equipment to do trading and development of 
business" with Latin America. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x ). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to membership in 
associations, participation as a judge, and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets all the previously claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria relating 
to judging and leading or critical roles. We disagree with the Director about memberships, because the 
record does not show that the Petitioner is a member of any qualifying associations. Rather, he has 
representedhis employers on the boards of associations for which the members are companies ratherthan 
individuals. 
But we further conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two other crite1ia, relating to published mate1ial 
about him in major media and original contributions of major significance. Because we agree with the 
Director's core finding that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we will proceed to the final merits determination. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established eligibility. 
The Director's final merits determination did not consider the record in its entirety. Rather, the Director 
focused on the criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3) that the Petitioner had met, and explained that, while the 
Petitioner had met the letter of those requirements, the evidence did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim. For instance, while the Petitioner's involvement in academic evaluations 
constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
not shown that such activity "places [him] among the small percentage of top executives at the very top 
of their field." The Director also questioned the weight of letters that the Petitioner had submitted in 
support of the petition. 
We agree with the general proposition that some of the initial criteria do not specifically contain a directly 
stated element of sustained national or international acclaim, while other criteria are more specifically 
worded.2 Additionally, we agree that establishing eligibility requires more than the submission of 
favorable letters alone. The record must reflect the individual's sustained national or international acclaim 
to merit approval. Neve1iheless, the Director's final merits deternnnation overlooks more persuasive 
elements of the record. Illustrative examples from the record show that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence.3 
Dinero magazine named the Petitioner among lin 2003. This accolade, by itself, 
speaks more to the Petitioner's promise than to his achievements at that time, but later materials in the 
record have borne out early predictions ofhis potential. In more recent years, the Petitioner has heldhigh­
ranking executive positions at major oil and gas companies. Such positions are not sufficient to place him 
at the top of the field, but they are consistent with such stature, and other evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has done more than simply hold high-ranking offices at major energy companies. 
Using his high profile inl I oil and gas industry, he has expanded and reshaped that indus1ry, 
participating in negotiations that significantly increased exp01is. An advisor tol I stated that the 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
2 For instance, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) refers specifically to "membership in associations ... which 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts," whereas 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(iv)refers generally to "participation ... as a judge ofthework ofothers," without consideration as 
to the level of judging, the nature of the circumstances where the judging occurs, and whether such judging is a routine 
element ofone'sjob duties. 
3 That record encompasses several thousand pages of submissions, and we will not attempt a comprehensive review of all the 
evidence here. 
3 
Petitioner "led, structured, and negotiated the ______ contract between! I and 
Venezuela, which is unique in Latin America." A major shipment of a million barrels of crude oil to 
South Korea received coverage on a major television network, indicating that interest in this work had a 
reach beyond specialized media that focus solely on business transactions. The Petitioner's participation 
in several industry conferences, both as a speaker and as a panel moderator, have given him the 
opportunity to disseminate his expertise throughout the industry, increasing its reach and influence 
compared to proprietary innovations and strategies that a company might keep confidential in order to 
gain commercial advantage.4 At an 2021 forum on renewable energy, the Petitioner was one of six 
participants, alongside I then-current Minister of I The participation of this 
top-level official is an indication of the high profile of the event. 
As noted above, the Petitioner's positions within various industry associations is not membership in such 
associations, but we agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that his membership in their boards of 
directors and other governing bodies is, itself: an indication of his stature in the field. 
Review of the totality of the record supports the conclusion that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Therefore, we will sustain the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 Participation in industry gatherings is not, in and of itself, demonstrative of sustained national or international acclaim. 
Rather, we acknowledge this activity within the broader context of converging lines of evidence that indicate the 
Petitioner's stature in his field. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22278354 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tattoo artist and painter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant tourist in 2013, and has remained in 
the United States since that time. She works as a tattoo artist atl in I 
California. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to published material, 
judging the work of others, and display of her work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also 
meets three other criteria, relating to memberships, contributions, and leading or critical roles. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has met at least three of the initial 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, rather than further discuss those threshold criteria, we 
will proceed directly to the final merits determination, in which we consider whether the record as a 
whole establishes that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, is one 
of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes 
are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established eligibility. 
The Director concluded that, although the Petitioner had satisfied the letter of three regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record documents "bursts of professional popularity and success"rather than 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheimmigrant classification). 
2 
sustained national or international acclaim. These "bursts" include a as a contestant on 
I I, a reality competition show and a wave of 
publicity that accompanied a mural the Petitioner painted in early 2020 I The Petitioner's recognition as a muralist appears to rest on that one painting, but the bulk of 
the record concerns her work as a tattoo artist. In the latter field, we conclude that the Petitioner has met 
her burden of proof to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim. 
The amount of media exposure that the Petitioner has received does not appear to be commonplace in her 
field. She has featured in several online articles listing the best tattoo artists. By themselves, such lists 
might not reflect recognition beyond a small number of bloggers. But the record shows that the 
Petitioner's Instagram account has a substantial audience of over 250,000 followers. From the available 
evidence in the record, this appears to be a significantly high number in her field of endeavor, and a 
relatively direct measurement of popular acclaim.2 The Petitioner may have gained many of these 
followers during one of her "bursts of professional popularity," but she has retained them even after she 
was eliminated from I I and the publicity from her mural subsided. 
The Petitioner's documented participation as a judge at the !Tattoo A1is Convention in 2021 
takes on added weight from evidence in the record that the convention was a major national event within 
the field. Furthermore, the judging was not in a small event independently held by an exhibitor; the 
invitation to serve as a judge came from the organizer of the convention. 
While some materials in the record are more persuasive and have more weight than others, the record as 
a whole is sufficientto demonstratethatthe Petition eris a popularand widelyrespectedartist. The record 
shows, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has achieved a level of recognition in her 
field consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Therefore, we will sustain the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
2 The number of social media followers in this case should not be construed as a universally applicable standard. The 
significance of this number of social media followers will vary from one field to another. A motion picture actor, for 
instance, could reasonably be expected to have substantially more followers than a research chemist. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22697983 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that he enjoyed 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the very small percentage of actors at the top 
of the field. We subsequently dismissed his appeal, as well as his previous motion to reconsider. The 
matter is now before us on a second motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 The Petitioner checked box l .a in Part2 ofForrnl-290B, indicating that he was filing an appeal. While his accompanying 
brief refers to this filing as bothanappealanda motion, we will consider this as a motion to reconsider. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy to the prior decision. The 
requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The Director concluded in his most recent decision in this matter that while the Petitioner met three of 
the evidentiary criteria, he did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim 
through extensive documentation, and that he was among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
On appeal, we reached the same conclusion, while also refuting the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian as requiring a final merits 
determination. In our previous motion decision, we explained again that case law and official USCIS 
policy supported the Director's and our interpretation of Kazarian, and explained why the record does 
not support the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats his previous arguments regarding the requirement of a final merits 
determination, and does not challenge our previous conclusions regarding the merits of his petition. 
As we stated in our two most recent decisions, the Petitioner's reasoning ignores plain language in the 
Kazarian decision and is not supported by relevant caselaw. Further, the publicly available USCIS 
Policy Manual plainly states that if an individual shows that they either meet three of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or have a one-time achievement, they must then establish that they 
possess the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and are one of the small percentage at 
2 
the top of their field. 2 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our previous motion 
decision was based upon an incorrect application oflaw or policy. 
ORDER: The motion is dismissed. 
2 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19713820 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alternative, met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed 
the Petitioner's appeal, and three subsequent combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits new evidence regarding his recent activities and his social media presence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form T-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening the 
proceeding, or established that our decision to dismiss his third motion to reopen and reconsider was 
based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner holds a black belt in the I style 
of karate, having competed at various levels since 2002. The Petitioner joinedl I national 
karate team in 2012, and claimed to still be a member of that team in 2018 although he had been in 
the United States since November 2017 as a B-1 visitor. He is vice president and head coach at I !Karate Academy in I California. 
2 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that he met none of those criteria. After a de nova review of the 
record, we reached the same conclusions and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2019. 
The Petitioner then filed three combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. We dismissed these 
combined motions, in April 2020, November 2020, and May 2021, respectively. The matter is now 
before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his 
previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an inconect application of law or 
users policy and was inconectatthe time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5)(a)(3). 
The statement accompanying the Petitioner's latest motion does not meet this requirement. The 
Petitioner does not identify any inconect application of law or users policy in our May 2021 
decision, or make any specific claim that our May 2021 decision was inconect based on the evidence 
in the record at the time of that decision. Instead, the Petitioner describes newly submitted evidence. 
The new evidence submitted on motion was not in the record for us to consider at the time of the 
previous decision. We consider this new evidence in the context of a motion to reopen, below. 
The motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and therefore the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires us to dismiss the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must establish new facts. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Nevertheless,noteverynew 
fact warrants reopening of the proceeding. The Petitioner must establish that he meets all eligibility 
requirements as of the date of filing, and continuing through the adjudication of the petition. 8 C.F.R 
§ 102.3(b )(1 ). Therefore, consistent with this proceeding, the Petitioner's new evidence must establish 
that he was eligible for the classification sought when he filed the petition in May 2018, and remains 
eligible now. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: 
In support of the Motion I am submitting evidence of my status as a verified person on 
the Facebook and the documentation from the Face book showing the criteria used to 
select and/or identify the individual as a "verified person." I am also submitting 
evidence of the number of followers I have on the Face book and Instagram. 
Previous decisions had not discussed the Petitioner's Facebook page, and the Petitioner does not 
explain why his "verified" status establishes that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. A 
submitted printout from Face book indicates that a verified page must "[r]epresent a well-known, often 
3 
searched person, brand or entity." The printout does not elaborate as to the minimum requirements to 
meet these vague and general standards. 
The Petitioner establishes how many followers he has on Facebook and Instagram, but he does not 
provide any context for those numbers. For instance, he does not provide figures for other athletes in 
his sp01i, to show that he has significantly more followers than most others in his field. With no basis 
for comparison, the figures provided by the Petitioner do not establish extraordinary ability. 
The printouts also do not show when Face book awarded the verification badge to the Petitioner's page. 
Therefore, even if the Petitioner had shown the badge to be strong evidence of eligibility, he has not 
demonstrated that his page had such a badge when he filed the petition in May 2018. Likewise, the 
Petitioner does not show how many followers he had at the time of filing. 
Because the Petitioner has not established the relevance of the Face book verification badge and social 
media printouts, he has not shown that their submission shows proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
The Petitioner also states: 
I am also submitting documentation to show that my previous achievements as a 
professional athlete earned me and continue to earn the reputation of the professional 
athlete and now a coach and that my expertise in the field and performance techniques 
are well-recognized here in the United States. 
The Petitioner does not further elaborate as to the nature of this documentation or how it establishes 
his eligibility. Apart from Face book printouts, the new materials on appeal consist of the following: 
• Two letters, fromD 2021, describinJ the Petitioner's s activities as a coach and competitor at 
al I championship inl 2021 and his subsequent work with some of the 
athletes there; 
• Fourteen undated photographs of the Petitioner, sometimes alone and sometimes with other 
athletes, some of whom appear to be students of the karate academy where he now works; 
• A certificate from the U.S. Center for Safesport, indicating that the Petitioner completed a 
training program in June 2021; and 
• Three social media posts from showing photographs from the Petitioner's visit 
tol I 
One of the new letters is from the founder and president of the I Karate Academy, where 
the Petitioner is vice president and head coach. The letter describes events that took place after the 
petition's filing date in May 2018; the Academy was founded in 2019. The other new letter is from 
an individual who does not state any title, but who indicates that he is a franchisee ofl I land who recruited the Petitioner to act as head coach at the regional event in __ 
mentioned above. The letter indicated that the Petitioner pursued Safesp01i certification in order to 
coach "5 of [the writer's] daughters in the I National Championships and team trials." 
4 
As explained above, events that took place after May 2018 cannot establish that the Petitioner was 
eligible when he filed the petition. Because the Petitioner has not shown that he was eligible at the 
time of filing, consideration of newer evidence regarding his activities in 2021, such as his Safesport 
training, cannot suffice to show eligibility. The Petitioner has also not shown that his continued 
involvement in regional-level competitions establishes that he meets the very high eligibility 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The new evidence does not establish relevant new facts, and therefore does not constitute proper cause 
for reopening the proceeding. We will dismiss the motion to reopen because it does not meet the 
requirements for such a motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21694953 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 20, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the 
Director's decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a musician who has worked as a singer, conductor, and 
composer. He indicates that he seeks to work as an independent choral or orchestral conductor in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet nine of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), lesser nationally or international recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), published materials in professional or trade publications or major media; 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications or other media; 
• (vii), display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, related to published materials at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets at least three of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is otherwise qualified for the classification sought. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards when evaluating 
two of the claimed criteria and failed to consider relevant evidence submitted with respect to a third 
2 
criterion. Based on these deficiencies, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for entry of a new decision. 
The first step of the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to 
determining whether the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). This 
limited determination does not require an assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a 
petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. Rather, the question of whether a petitioner is 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys 
sustained national or international acclaim should only be addressed in the second step of the analysis 
(final merits determination). 
Here, the Director's decision reflects that he erroneously imposed qualitative requirements to the first 
step of the evidentiary review process with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vii). The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence that the individual has participated 
as the judge of the work of others in the same field or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. While the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had documented his 
participation as a judge of the work of others, he determined that the evidence did not satisfy the plain 
language of this criterion because he had judged "students, adult amateurs or early career 
professionals" and therefore had not judged "peers," a requirement that does not appear in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director also questioned whether the evidence could 
establish that "the petitioner's 'achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise,"' an 
analysis that must be made in a final merits determination, but one that is not appropriate in evaluating 
whether the evidence submitted objectively satisfies the regulatory criterion. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
Similarly, the Director inappropriately imposed requirements when evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires "evidence of the display of the [individual's] work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases." The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
related to his public performances as a vocalist and conductor but stated: 
Music festivals and theatres generally are not artistic exhibitions designed to showcase a 
single individual's work in the same sense that a painter or sculptor displays his work in a 
gallery or museum. Also, the fact that a musical artist has displayed his work does not 
necessarily establish extraordinary ability. The artist must also demonstrate the exhibition 
or showcase was at a venue of a sufficient level to evidence acclaim and that the exhibited 
works placement at such an exhibition or exhibition was itself of such significance. While 
a musical artist could possibly claim this criterion, it is more likely that an artist who is at 
the top of his field would be able to claim this success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
We note that the plain language of this regulation does not exclude performing artists or limit its 
application solely to visual artists (such as painters or sculptors). Further, as discussed above, when 
determining whether a petitioner has submitted evidence that satisfies a given criterion, it is 
inappropriate to impose a requirement that the evidence also demonstrate the person's acclaim or 
establish his or her extraordinary ability. Finally, the fact that the Director believes that the Petitioner, 
as a performing artist, should be able to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(x) is irrelevant to 
3 
an analysis of the evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Director's evaluation of 
this criterion must be based on the evidence the Petitioner submitted, rather than on assumptions about 
the Petitioner's failure to address a different criterion. On remand, the Director is instructed to re­
evaluate the submitted evidence to determine whether it satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Finally, we note that the Director's discussion of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) contains few 
references to the Petitioner's evidence. In support of his claim that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards or prizes, the Petitioner submitted evidence related to twelve 
awards, some of them individual awards, and some for which he was recognized as a conductor or co­
conductor of a group. In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director 
specifically addressed only one of these awards, and therefore did not provide sufficient support for 
his conclusion that none of the awards could satisfy the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, with respect to the three criteria 
discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he was 
not required to conduct a final merits determination of whether the Petitioner has established that he 
possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20274865 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets five criteria in 
addition to the two criteria that the Director concluded she met. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a business leader with experience in strategic management, 
business development, and entrepreneurship. She holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics and 
Political Science from the University of land has developed numerous business strategies and 
innovations for companies throughout North America. She is the co-founder and chief executive 
officer (CEO) of I a Florida-based tech education company. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met her burden to establish that she has published material 
about her and has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that the Petitioner satisfied 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii). 
2 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director failed to consider 
evidence relating to an additional criterion. Further, the Director's determinations with respect to 
certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
With respect to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's initial evidence and additional evidence 
submitted in response to the request for evidence (RFE). However, the Director did not provide an 
adequate analysis of this evidence and did not explain, for example, why he determined that some of 
the awards were regional in nature, that some of the awards were conveyed to organizations as opposed 
to the Petitioner, and why supporting documentary evidence was given little evidentiary weight. 
Further, the Director's discussion of this criterion in the decision closely mirrors that provided in the 
RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of additional evidence with her RFE response. Given the 
amount and type of evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we find the Director's brief analysis 
does not adequately inform the Petitioner of the reasons for concluding that none of the awards 
satisfied the plain language of this criterion. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As with the awards criterion, the Director listed some of the documents the 
Petitioner submitted but did not discuss any specific evidence in his analysis of the criterion, instead 
reaching a conclusory finding that the evidence in general was insufficient to meet the regulatory 
requirements. As the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters 
explaining how the evidence supports her eligibility. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and 
submitted evidence of her participation on judging panels for a variety of entrepreneurial competitions 
the occurred prior to the petition's filing. Although the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim, 
he declined to evaluate this claim or the evidence submitted in support of this claim, and therefore did 
not make a determination as to whether the Petitioner meets this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
emphasizes its previous submission of this evidence and provides supplemental evidence relating to 
the Beneficiary's services as a jury member. On remand, the Director should review the record, 
including the supplemental evidence submitted on appeal, to determine whether the Beneficiary met 
this criterion at the time of filing. 
3 
With regard to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director's decision did not sufficiently address most of the evidence she submitted and summarily 
concludes that her contributions, though original and relevant, have not substantially impacted the 
business field. In support of her claim that she has made original contributions of major significance 
in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence related to various business strategies and initiatives she 
developed, and submitted letters from industry experts and other evidence related to her 
accomplishments and their impact on the field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director failed to consider much of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. As the Director 
only vaguely referenced "information and letters" in his analysis of this criterion, without specifically 
identifying any particular documents, he should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence 
submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
Finally, in evaluating the criterion relating to high salary or other significantly high remuneration at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted her employment 
contract and tax forms as evidence of her income, as well as comparative salary data, and concluded 
that the Petitioner's salary is not high compared to other CEO positions in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner re-emphasizes that she is a business entrepreneur and notes that while the Director 
acknowledged this assertion, he declined to evaluate her salary as an entrepreneur under this criterion 
despite the submission of significant evidence. We agree with the Petitioner that the Director should 
not have discounted the Petitioner's claimed occupation and supporting evidence, and further note 
that, similar to the analysis of the awards criterion, the Director's discussion of this criterion in the 
decision closely mirrors that provided in the RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of additional 
evidence with her RFE response. We therefore remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22338331 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a home appliance manufacturer , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
establishing his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's 
decision was erroneous and that the Beneficiary meets at least three criteria as required. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a global manufacturer and marketer of home appliances. 
The Beneficiary is currently employed as its of Strategy and Business 
Development at itsl I location. The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual 
of extraordinary ability in the field of business based on his expertise in the activation of category and 
digital growth strategies for consumer goods and retail companies. The record indicates that the 
Beneficiary holds a master's degree in business administration from the I I School of 
Management at University as well as a diploma in international business and cultural 
studies from the University of and has approximately 20 years of experience in his field. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to five 
criteria: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met its burden to establish that the Beneficiary has held a 
leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations and has commanded a high 
2 
salary. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).1 The Petitioner 
further argues that in addition to being arbitrary and capricious, the Director's decision ignored 
probative evidence in the record, failed to give evidentiary weight to credible documentation, and 
applied erroneous legal standards or impermissibly imposed novel substantive legal requirements. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director's determinations 
regarding certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the evidence the Petitioner 
submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In his decision, the Director simply stated that "the petitioner provided articles 
about various topics in which the beneficiary was mentioned or quoted," but declined to discuss or 
analyze any of the articles submitted or their contents. Instead, the Director reached a conclusory 
finding that the evidence was insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements. On remand, the 
Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the 
Petitioner's assertions on appeal explaining how the evidence supports the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
With respect to the original contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's decision did not sufficiently address most of the 
evidence submitted and instead summarily concluded that the Beneficiary's contributions have not 
substantially impacted the field as a whole despite determining that they have had an impact on the 
success of his employer. The record demonstrates that the Petitioner submitted evidence, including 
project materials, internal documentation, and presentations demonstrating the Beneficiary's original 
contributions, as well as expert testimonial letters commenting on such contributions and their effect 
on the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that despite its submission of ample objective evidence 
both initially in support of the petition and in response to the request for evidence, the Director failed 
to consider or discuss any of this evidence in the denial. Regarding the expert letters, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director "arbitrarily dismissed the majority of the letters ... without analyzing the 
content of these letters in any way." We agree. The Director's decision devotes two sentences to two 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued its initial claim that the Beneficiary meets the criterion relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), nor does it contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in our decision. See. e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 
24 l&N Dec. 762. 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
3 
letters, respectively, and concludes simply that the authors of each letter did not provide examples of 
how the Beneficiary's contributions have impacted the field as a whole. The Director did not discuss 
the contents or subject matter of these letters, nor did he identify any specific deficiencies in these or 
any of the other letters. Moreover, the Director did not discuss the documentary evidence or the 
experts' commentary with regard to such documentation, which the Petitioner asserts demonstrates 
the Beneficiary's original contributions of major significance as contemplated by this criterion. The 
Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those 
claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include 
an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738510 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 22, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pathologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a medical degree and a Ph.D. in health, both from the !University of 
in his native Brazil. The Petitioner is a professor in the Department of I at 
and served as head of that de artment from 2011 to 2014 and from 2015 to 2017. He also 
worked as director of th and as a pa tho lo gist for municipal and state health 
secretariats in He is also a founder of I which provides laboratory testing 
support services. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
relating to judging and authorship of scholarly articles. We further find that he has satisfied the 
criterion relating to a leading or critical role. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the fourth claimed criterion, which 
requires documentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that his published articles constitute original contributions of major significance 
in the field. His authorship of those articles falls under a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
which the Petitioner has satisfied. For his articles to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xv), he 
must establish the majorsignificance of those articles. The burden of proofis on the Petitioner to establish 
eligibility; he cannot simply assert that his original contributions are of major significance. 
Although published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is 
of major significance. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed 
2 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the 
field of endeavor. 6 USCIS PolicyManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
As quoted above, the USCJS Policy Manual does not indicate that citations always establish major 
significance; we must consider context, such as the number of those citations. The Petitioner states that 
his published "work has been cited more than 158 times by peers [ from] all over the world." This is a 
cumulative figure, reflecting the aggregate total of citations of all his published work. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from Google Scholar showing that five of the Petitioner's articles had 
each garnered 10 or more citations; another six articles had citations in the single digits. Two of the most­
cited articles do notrepmioriginal scientific findings in the Petitioner's field. Themost-citedarticle, with 
42 citations, is a 2009 statistical study with the title I 
The third-most-cited article is a review article, which does not report 
original research. Rather, a review article surveys and summarizes the existing literature on a given 
subject. The Petitioner does not explain how a synopsis of already-published research constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance. 
The two remaining most-cited articles were an article from 2011 with 3 5 citations and an article from 
2016 with 12 citations. The Petitioner did not provide comparative evidence to show that these citation 
rates are commensurate with major significance in his field. The Petitioner discussed the calculation of 
impact factors for journals that published his work, but the impact factor is calculated from the overall 
citation rates of all articles published in a given journal. It does not give equal weight to every such 
article, or establish a presumption that a1iicles published in high-impact journals are inherently of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that he "contributed with his knowledge through conferences, becoming 
an influence among other colleagues by sharing his own professional experience." The Petitioner has 
documented his participation in a number of conferences, but he has not explained how, or established 
that, these presentations and appearances have major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that "three expert opinion letters from distinguished professionals in his area of 
expertise [show] that his work has been implemented by professionals." The first such letter is from the 
president of in lwho stated that "several [ of the Petitioner's articles 
were very relevant to this hospital." The second letter is from the director of a urological clinic in I lwho states that two of the Petitioner's articles "drew [his] attention and influenced [his] medical 
practice." The third letter is from a plastic surgeon, also in I who states that the Petitioner's 
published work has influenced some of the choices that she has made in her medical practice. 
These letters show that the Petitioner's work has had some degree of influence in the city of ___ 
but local influence is not tantamount to major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner states that the wider significance of his contributions is evident from email messages from 
journal publishers and conference organizers, which praised his earlier work and invited him to submit 
furthermanusc1ipts, join editorial boards, and speak at a conference. These materials are of questionable 
3 
weight. Every message that identifies a particular article by the Petitioner identifies the same article from 
2016. The messages offer general praise for the Petitioner's work, but no detailed discussion as to how 
it is of major significancein the field. Some of the messages appearto have been automatically generated, 
repeating bibliographic information and the abstract of the article without specific comments about the 
article. Many of the messages contain grammatical or typographical errors. The Petitioner's email 
providerflagged one ofthemessagesas "SPAM." One message invited the Petitioner to an "International 
Women [sic] Health and Breast Cancer Conference," indicating that the Petitioner's article established 
his "expertise and knowledge in the area," although that article specifically addressed an anatomical issue 
that only affects males. Given the many issues surrounding these messages, and the lack of any specific 
commentary about the Petitioner's work, we conclude that these materials are not evidence of the major 
significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof regarding this c1iterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
While we conclude that the Petitioner has submitted three of the threshold criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), he has not done so in a manner that establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has judged the work of others, thus satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but he has done so in the course of his normal duties as a university professor and 
department head, examining master's theses and evaluating candidates for faculty positions. 
Publication of scholarly articles satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vi), but this activity 
appears to be routine in academia, rather than a privilege restricted to those at the top of their fields. 
The Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that his work at _____ I I amounts to a critical role for an organization with a distinguished organization, thus satisfying 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but the record shows that his family founded the company 
and still owns it; the Petitioner himself received 30% of its shares from his father. Employment in a 
family-owned business certainly does not preclude national or international acclaim; a person in such 
a situation could attain such acclaim through their work. But the record does not show that the 
Petitioner's role at I has resulted in such acclaim, or that his high-ranking 
position is based on his acclaim. The Petitioner has submitted copies of news articles about the 
company, but these articles do not discuss the Petitioner apart from identifying him in captions to 
1 See also 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 appendix (stating that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
togetherwhen conside1ingthe petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
group photographs. Also, the submitted articles about the company have appeared in local media and 
do not establish that the company's officers, such as the Petitioner, are known outside two states in 
Eastern Brazil. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has established that he has been active as a researcher, but he has not 
shown that the reception and influence of his research rises to the level of national or international 
acclaim. The submitted citation figures lack a basis for comparison to show that the articles are among 
the most-cited in the field. 
Several lines of evidence, including documentation of his business activity and letters written to 
support the petition, indicate that the Petitioner's recognition is largely concentrated in thel I 
area. For example, one of the Petitioner's former professors a tated that the Petitioner's 
work at _________ gave a huge contribution to the city of I Some of 
these individuals work in medical specialties other than the Petitioner's stated specialty of pathology. 
The letters emphasize praise for the Petitioner's skills and knowledge, rather than specific ways in 
which the Petitioner's work has received national or international recognition. 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner has not established the sustained national or 
international acclaim required for eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence to meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). But in our final merits determination, we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, and we conclude that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's reputation 
appears to be predominantly local or regional. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21441044 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a I I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did 
not establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act; Matter oJChawath e, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a coach. He states that he intends to continue 
his work as a lcoach in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence, published materials in professional 
publications or major media, and judging the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance in his field, display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions 
and showcases, and leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (vii), and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or discounted the extensive evidence 
submitted pertaining to his sustained acclaim, and we agree with that assertion. Here, the Director's 
final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the 
evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to 
seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses 
evidence relating to the three criteria that the Director determined the Petitioner had satisfied, rather 
than considering the evidence in its totality. The final merits analysis narrowly focuses on the criteria 
relating to lesser awards, published material, and judging, and does not assess whether the submitted 
evidence in support of those criteria shows sustained national or international acclaim. For instance, 
the Petitioner on appeal highlights each individual award he has received, and argues that his receipt of 
such "prestigious medals at high-level events before the filing of the petition" is indicative of his sustained 
international acclaim. However, the Director's final merits analysis simply states that the Petitioner won 
"won six awards between the years of2011 and 2020" without any further analysis or discussion of those 
awards. 
In addition to narrowly focusing on the above-referenced criteria, the Director's final merits analysis 
failed to consider the totality of the material provided in support of the petition. The record includes 
multiple expert opinion letters from U.S. professionals, past employers, and industry experts that 
address the Petitioner's standing in the field, evidence related to his professional memberships, and 
evidence of his roles and contributions as a I coach. Because the Director did not consider any 
of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as explained above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678683 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a materials scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's de ee atl ITJniversity in China in 2016. While he was a 
graduate student at the Universit of he conducted research concerning the use of 
I I alloys to produce and to charge electronic devices. After he earned a 
master's degree in chemistry in 2018, the Petitioner began working forl I inl I 
California. He now holds H-1B nonimmigrant status.1 The Petitioner's most recent research focuses on 
I lused inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied all three claimed criteria. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original contributions 
of major si ificance in the field. The Petitioner stated that "[h]]e is especially well-known for evaluating 
filtratio disinfection methods. Furthermore, [ the Petitioner's] work on 
efficacy has impacted the World Health Organization's and Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention's guidance regarding! I during equipment shortages during the COVID-19 health 
crisis." 
The Petitioner submitted partial copies of 11 of his journal articles. The four most recent articles deal 
with I I Many of the other articles, published between 
1 On August 20, 2021, the Petitioner filed a Form I-140 petition on his own behalf, seeking to classify himselfas an 
individual of exceptional ability or a member of the professions holding an advanced degree under section 203(b )(2)(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner also sought a national interest waiver of the requirement for a job offer, under section 
203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. That petition, with receipt number I was approvedon August26. 2022. 
2 
2015 and 2020, concern the use of __ alloys for charging electronic devices orl for use in I _____ 
The Petitioner submitted an October2021 printout from Google Scholar, showing the numberofcitations 
each article had received before that time. The Petitioner's three articles with the highest number of 
citations were as follows: 
• ACS Nano 2020, 
249 citations 
• -----------------------~Vouk 
2019 1 77 citations 
• 
Nano Letters 2020, 132 citations 
Ten other articles published between 2015 and 2020 had each accumulated less than 50 citations, for a 
cumulative total of 841 citations. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "the record does not establish a pattern of producing heavily 
cited research consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute demands." 
As worded, this statement conflates the initial evidentiary threshold, relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), with the later step of the final merits determination, in which sustained national or 
international acclaim comes into play. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director does not appear to have fully considered all the evidence 
or explained why it is insufficient to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director also 
discussed, at some length, information from "the Academiclnfluence.com website." The record does not 
contain any printouts from that site, and the Petitioner's correspondence does not mention the site.2 
Because this information is not in the record, we cannot tell how the named individuals were selected and 
ranked, nor can we determine how authoritative the website is in that regard. 
Even then, the Director cited this outside information to support the conclusion that the Petitioner "would 
not stack up in comparison to the top IO or even the top 50" materials scientists listed on that site. In the 
context of the regulatory criterion, an individual's rank in the field is not a factor; the requirement is 
"original contributions of major significance." Even in the broader context of the final merits 
determination, there is no requirement that an individual must rank among "the top 50" in a given field 
in order to demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim. 
Relying on a 2021 printout of "InCites Essential Science Indicators" from Clarivate Analytics, which 
includes a table of citation rates in materials science, the Petitioner noted that the citation of his work put 
his ACS Nano article in the top 0.01 % for its year of publication, and the articles from Joule and Nano 
Letters each in the top O .1 %. Given this information, it is reasonable to conclude that at least some of the 
Petitioner's articles have been heavily cited relative to others in the field of mate1ials science. 
2 It therefore appears thatthe Directorrelied, in part, on information from outside the record of proceeding, withoutpriornotice 
to the Petitioner as required by 8 C .F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). 
3 
Between the heavy citation of some of the Petitioner's articles and explanations of the relevance and 
implications of the work cited, the record is sufficient to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
that the Petitioner has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage atthe very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not give sufficient weight to the heavy citation of the 
Petitioner's work in the context of the threshold criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). At the same time, 
however, the citation of some of the Petitioner's recent work is not sufficient to establish sustained 
national or international acclaim in the context of the final me1its determination. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3) clearly describes that the Petitioner must establish sustained 
national or international acclaim as an individual; the statuteandregulations do not contemplate collective 
acclaim forresearch teams or employers. This is significant because the Petitioner is one of eight credited 
co-authors of the A CS Nano article described above. In a letter submitted with the petition, a co-author 
of that article described the overall project, without addressing the division oflabor among the eight co­
authors to properly analyze the Beneficiary's contribution. 
In a request for evidence, the Director asked for "as much detail as possible about the [Petitioner's] 
contribution." In response, the article's primary author stated that the Petitioner "was just as influential 
as I was in terms of the overall effort made and the final outcome. In our work together, I personally 
observed [the Petitioner's] significant skills in the field of chemistry. His leadership, innovative spirit, 
and expert understanding of the subject matter were all key factors in this project's success." These 
assertions, however, provide no details as to how the Petitioner contributed to the project. We note that 
the Petitioner did not submit a complete copy of the ACS Nano article, and the record does not reveal 
whether the missing portion of the article sheds more light on the nature of the Petitioner's contributions 
to the project. The record does not show, for instance, whether the Petitioner conceived of the project, 
set the protocols, or performed comparatively smaller laboratory tasks such as measurements, sample 
preparation, ordatacollection, underthe direction of others. 
Furthermore, when considering the record as a whole for the final merits determination, we note that a 
researcher can readily satisfy theregulatorycriteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi) without attaining 
sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner's activity as a judge of the work of others has 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise fortheirnmigrant classification). 
4 
been as a peer reviewer of manuscripts, which appears to be a routine activity in academia rather than a 
reflection of sustained national or international acclaim. Likewise, authorship of one's own scholarly 
articles appears to be integral to scientific research. The Petitioner notes that some of the journals that 
have published his work boast high impact factors, a measure of overall citation frequency, but it does 
not follow that a researcher who publishes in those journals is, forthatreason, invariably or presumptively 
more acclaimed than his or her peers. 
The Petitioner has undertaken research in important areas, with implications not only for public health 
but also clean energy generation, consistent with the recent approval of another immigrant petition under 
a lesser classification. His collaborators at I include some very prominent names. However, the 
Beneficiary has not attained or demonstrated comparable prominence himself.. The record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner, as an individual, has achieved sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has worked on teams that produced some influential 
papers, but he has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21340921 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a city branding expert, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker 
(Form 1-140), concluding that record did not establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence 
requirements through evidence of a one-time achievement , or, in the alternative , evidence that satisfied 
at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further determined 
that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts with respect to her authorship record. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which the 
Director dismissed as untimely. The Petitioner now appeals the Director's dismissal of the combined 
motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we emphasize that the Petitioner has not appealed the denial of the Form 1-
140 itself, but rather the Director's subsequent dismissal of her combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. Although the Petitioner's appeal includes additional evidence in support of her petition, 
the merits of the initial denial decision, and of the underlying petition, are not before us. The only 
issue before us on appeal is whether the Petitioner has established that the Director erred by dismissing 
her combined motions. 
The record reflects that the Director denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140 on March 2, 2021. The 
Petitioner filed her combined motions to reopen and reconsider in response to that unfavorable 
decision on May 28, 2021. 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 
103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that 
Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable 
decision. Based on this extended deadline, the Petitioner's previous motion on the Director's March 
2, 2021, decision would have been deemed timely filed if received by USCIS on or before May 4, 
2021, which includes the 60-day period plus three days for mailing. As noted, the Petitioner filed the 
combined motions on May 28, 2021. On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the motions were 
untimely filed. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this [30-day] period expires may be excused 
in the discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond 
the control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). Although the prior motion 
was a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, the regulations do not provide discretion 
for USCIS to excuse the untimely filing of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, our review is limited to 
whether the Director should have exercised his discretion to consider the merits of the untimely motion 
to reopen. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director's decision to dismiss the 
untimely motion was appropriate. 
A review of the Petitioner's submission on motion reveals that she provided no explanation or 
justification for its late filing and therefore did not meet her burden to demonstrate that the delay was 
reasonable. Accordingly, the Director had no basis to excuse the late filing of the motion to reopen 
under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) and was not required to consider the merits of the motion. The 
Petitioner has not established that the Director erred by dismissing it as untimely. USCIS cannot grant 
a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner asserts that the late filing was 
caused by "human error" that resulted in a miscalculation of the deadline for filing the motion. She 
asserts, however, that the error was reasonable because USCIS issued confusing guidance on 
pandemic-related filing flexibilities that led her to believe that she had 90 calendar days, rather than 
60 days, to file the motion. 
As noted, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B to 
account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as extending 
deadlines for other actions, such as responses to requests for additional evidence. An announcement 
published by USCIS on January 28, 2021, was in effect at the time the Director denied the Petitioner's 
Form 1-140 on March 2, 2021. That announcement states that USCIS "will consider a Form N-336 or 
Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision before we take any action."1 
The Petitioner has not explained how this announcement can be interpreted as allowing an affected 
party to file a Form I-290B up to 90 days after the date of an adverse decision. 2 
1 See "USCIS Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," (Jan. 28, 2021 ), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
news/alerts/uscis-extends- flexibility- for-responding-to-agency-requests-3. 
2 The USCIS announcement that the Petitioner characterizes as "confusing" was issued on March 27, 2020 and expired on 
May 1, 2020. 
2 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the COVID-19 flexibility policy was created with the 
intention of giving petitioners and applicants more time to collect documentation in support of their 
benefit requests and appeals. The Petitioner asserts that it would be "extremely unfair and prejudicial" 
for USCIS to make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact without providing her with 
a chance to respond to those allegations. However, there is no indication that COVID-19 related 
delays prevented her from filing her motion in a timely fashion. A review of the record reflects that 
the Petitioner had obtained additional documentation to submit in support of her motion to reopen well 
before the due date of May 4, 2021. The Petitioner's statements on appeal do not demonstrate why 
she required several additional weeks to file the motion, beyond the extended deadline already 
provided by USCIS to provide additional flexibility during the pandemic. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not supported her claim that she was not afforded an opportunity to timely file a motion in response 
to the Director's adverse decision dated March 2, 2021. Further, the arguments submitted on appeal 
do not establish that the Petitioner's untimely filing of the motion to reopen was reasonable and beyond 
her control. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director's dismissed her combined 
motions in error or otherwise overcome the basis for the prior decision. 
II. CONCLUSION 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing of her motion was reasonable and beyond 
her control. The Petitioner provided no justification for the untimeliness of her combined motion at 
the time she filed it and therefore we cannot conclude that the Director erred by dismissing it. 
Although the Petitioner has provided an explanation for the untimely filing of the motion on appeal, 
that explanation, for the reasons discussed above, is not persuasive and does not warrant the 
withdrawal of the Director's decision. Accordingly, the appeal will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10994686 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a printing engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. We will 
also withdraw the finding of willful misrepresentation. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as "an expe1ion flexographic technology" with "extraordinary ability 
in the field of printing engineering." Flexography is a method of printing involving flexible printing 
plates mounted on high-speed rotors, for printing on various porous and non-orous substrates. 
Materials in the record refer to her as the founder and chieftechnolo officer of technology officer of ___________ and as general manager of If she 
is able to immigrate to the United States, she intends to establish a "Flexography Lab" in the I I area." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the regulatory criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets four criteria, pertaining to published material about her; original 
contributions; authorship of scholarly articles; and a leading or critical role. The Petitioner does not 
contest the Director's conclusions regarding judging and remuneration, and therefore we consider 
those issues to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) through an article about her, 
pertaining to her work, in Peninsula City News. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted translated copies of six articles. One of these articles, published in China 
Strategic Emerging Industry, is credited to an author other than the Petitioner. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested circulation data, to show that the publications 
meet the regulatory requirements. Evidence of such material should establish that the circulation 
( online or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and who the intended audience of 
the publication is. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In response, the Petitioner stated that she had submitted "evidence to prove the journals are major." 
But the evidence in question simply described the publications, without providing circulation data as 
requested and required. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
establish the existence of the claimed articles. We will discuss this issue further below, in the context 
of the Director's finding of willful misrepresentation. Here, it will suffice to say that the Director 
appears to have relied on incomplete information. 
But the Petitioner has not adequately addressed the Director's concern, stated previously, that the 
Petitioner had not shown that her articles appeared in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. For this reason, we agree with the Director's core conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the requirements of the criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner indicated that the scholarly articles in the record include qualifying contributions. 
Those articles do not inherently show the significance of the contributions they describe. A petitioner 
can establish the major significance of published scholarly work by showing that it has "provoked 
widespread commentary," received notice from others working in the field, or been cited frequently 
by other scholars as authoritative in the field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Here, 
the Petitioner has not submitted such evidence. 
The Petitioner claimed to be "listed by name as the inventor on four ... patents," but her name is only 
on two of the four submitted patent certificates. As with her articles, her patents are evidence of 
original contributions, but the patents themselves do not contain evidence of their own significance. 
The Petitioner must show not only that her contributions exist, but also how those contributions affect 
the field at a level demonstrating major significance. 
The Petitioner is one of two named inventors of a 
I I She asserted that this patent "has won wide industry praise and attention from foreign 
markets." The Petitioner also stated that her "academic articles introduced many advanced 
3 
technologies in the industry," and that she set technical standards at ___ which "gradually 
became the current industry standard ... widely used in the industry." 
To support these assertions, the Petitioner submitted letters from the co-inventor of the device, the 
chief executive officer ofl I and the executive director of I The letters identify 
contributions such as improvements in printing efficiency and reliability, and indicate that 7 
was the first company to exportl Ito Europe and the United States. The letters also 
indicate that the Petitioner's work addressed technical challenges of flexographic printing on 
I I 
The statements of individuals so close to the Petitioner, without further corroboration, cannot be 
presumed to represent a broader consensus in the field. The Petitioner did not submit objective 
evidence to document adoption of her methods or inventions throughout the industry, or to show that 
her contributions have advanced the field overall, as opposed to her companies' commercial interests. 
The Petitioner stated that her companies' products meet the standards of the Forest Stewardship 
Council and comply with European Union timber regulations. These regulations and industry 
standards are already in place; compliance does not amount to an original contribution. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence to show how the Petitioner's contributions "impacted the 
field in a major and significant way." In response, the Petitioner repeated information from the initial 
submission and submitted new documentation showing that she drafted! "Enterprise 
Standards" for in 2006. Two other a er com anies in China later 
published similar standards - in 2011 and 
in 2012. The Petitioner asserts that the similarities demonstrate 
the influence of the standards she developed. We note that the 2011 standards were drafted by the 
individual named as co-inventor on the Petitioner's two patents. The 2012 standards do not identify 
their author. The documentation submitted does not establish the major significance of these 
standards. Also, nothing in the documents themselves establishes thatl I standards were 
largely or entirely original, rather than based on earlier work. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown how her contributions have 
major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
[W]e have provided sufficient evidence such as [the Petitioner's] patents, publications, 
and testimonials from professionals in the field. All the evidence indicate[s that the 
Petitioner] is a leader in the field of her endeavor and has set the standard for the 
industry. The [Director] failed to consider and did not even mention any of [the 
Petitioner's] achievement[s]. 
Since we have provided plenty of evidence and the examiner did not object, the 
[Petitioner] has satisfied the criterion. 
4 
The Director, however, did not disregard the Petitioner's evidence as asserted. The Director discussed 
the Petitioner's work, stating: "two other companies [are] using the same standards the petitioner 
drafted, but the petitioner did not demonstrate how these three companies using these standards 
impacted her field as a whole." 
The Petitioner has not overcome the Director's conclusions regarding this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the one remaining claimed criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), pertaining to the Petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 2 
The Petitioner has not met at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, 
the petition cannot be approved, and we need not proceed to a final merits determination. 
Nevertheless, another issue remains to be discussed. 
B. Willful Misrepresentation of a Material Fact 
The Director made a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner, 
having determined that the Petitioner had submitted false evidence relating to the scholarly articles 
submitted in support of the petition. 
A misrepresentation is an assertion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a material misrepresentation requires that the 
foreign national willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of 
obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N 
Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully"means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief thatthe facts are otherwise. See Matter of Healy 
and Goodchild, 17 I&NDec.22,28 (BIA 1979). To be consideredmaterial, themisrepresentationmust 
be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which 
might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 
536,537(BIA 1980). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits 
evidence which contains false information. In general, a few errors or minor discrepancies are not 
reason to question the credibility of a foreign national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. 
See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. U.S., 345 F.3d 683,694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes 
serious errors and discrepancies, and the petitioner does not resolve those errors and discrepancies 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
5 
given the opportunity to rebut or explain, then the inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that 
the claims stated in the petition are not true. See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582,591 (BIA 1988). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation, under section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § ll 82(a)(6)(C). 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See MatterofM-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter ofL-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 196I);KaiHing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
In this case, the Director determined that Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles is directly 
relevant to an eligibility criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and therefore any misrepresentation 
regarding such articles would be material to the petition. While the Director has raised questions in 
this regard, we conclude that the Director has not adequately justified this finding. 
Most of the discussion of the Petitioner's alleged misrepresentation concerns an article which, 
according to the Petitioner, appeared in issue of Modern Business Trade Industry, in I 
2019. The journal's cover identifies the publication's website as http://www.xdsmgy.cn. 
In the RFE, issued December 3, 2019, the Director stated: "the evidence is not credible. The website 
for the journal Modern Business Trade Industry shows the latest issue for this magazine was number D but the petitioner is claiming her article was featured in issue numb er The Director did not 
identify a specific web page containing this information. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a web printout showingOnumbered issues of Modern Business 
Trade Industry from 2019, and another printout showing abstracts of several claimed articles, 
including the Petitioner's article, from issue D The Petitioner stated that these materials came from 
"the website page of the National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI)" and "the official website." 
In the denial notice, the Director did not address these printouts. Instead, the Director stated that, 
according to the website named on the magazine cover, "issue number does not exist, because this 
journal has been printing semi-monthly since 2008. . . . [T]he issues for were I 
and there were only issues total for the year." 
Also, the decision included new allegations not found in the RFE, based on derogatory information 
from outside the record of proceeding. The Director did not give the Petitioner an opportunity to rebut 
this information prior to the decision, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits photographs, with translations, of what appear to be the print edition 
of Modern Business Trade Industry, showing information translated as indicating that the magazine is 
published "every ten days." 
6 
Because the Director acknowledged consulting the journal's website, we visited that site as well. 
While the home page does refer to the publication as "bimonthly," it also shows a link to CNKI. 
Information found at that linked site confirms that there were issues of Modern Business Trade 
Industry in 2019, and that the Petitioner's article appeared in issue03 Between this online 
information and the photographs submitted by the Petitioner, the preponderance of the evidence 
supports the conclusion that the article exists, credited to the Petitioner. 
Apart from the article discussed above, the Director also stated: 
A search of several websites was conducted, including Oripribe and CKNI, and they 
did not reveal any magazine for the ISSN number listed on the cover of Science Guide. 
In addition, in regards [sic] to the other four articles the petitioner claimed she authored, 
the websites Oripribe or CKNI did not reveal the issues in which the petitioner claimed 
her articles were published. 
The Director did not provide specific web addresses that would have allowed us to repeat the searches. 
It is also unclear that either of the named sources are complete and comprehensive databases. This is 
significant because if a database is complete, then the absence of a claimed publication from that 
database would serve as evidence that the claimed publication does not exist. But if the database, 
however large, has gaps, then the absence of a claimed publication would serve only as a lack of 
corroboration. 
Also, as above, this information was not in the RFE, and therefore the Petitioner did not have the 
opportunity to respond to this information before the denial was issued, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(l 6)(i). 
We withdraw the finding that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts relating to her 
claimed publication record. There are ambiguities and deficiencies in the record, but upon 
consideration of the evidence submitted by the Petitioner there is not a sufficient basis for a finding of 
willful misrepresentation of a material fact with respect to her scholarly a1iicles. 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained nor or international acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. 
3 See https: (visited September I, 2022). 
4 Because the Director based the finding of willful misrepresentation solely on the information relating to the Petitioner's 
published articles, our contrary finding is, likewise, limited to such evidence. We take no position regarding other 
information that may exist outside the record of proceeding. 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrnte 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record indicates that 
the Petitioner has had success in the printing industry, and has expanded her business by overcoming 
technical obstacles. But the record does not show that she has earned recognition beyond! ] 
and I I in Southeast China and sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 