U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 26505739 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 03, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. We dismissed the 
subsequent appeal, explaining that the Petitioner's evidence did not establish his eligibility for the 
requested classification. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The 
issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or has 
established that our decision to dismiss the prior appeal was based on an incorrect application of law 
or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior decision by reference and will repeat only certain 
facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's claims on motion. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
As the Petitioner does not claim on motion that our prior decision contained an error of law or policy, 
it cannot meet the fundamental requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. On 
motion, the Petitioner provides a table listing the evidence and arguments he asserts establish his 
eligibility under various criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The table contains additional bulleted 
information for consideration under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), relating to a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. In his prior 
appeal, he provided a nearly identical table and as such, these bulleted items appear to be the only 
difference between the table on motion and the table submitted on appeal. The Petitioner cannot meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions; the motion 
must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 
58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
Here, the Petitioner does not identify any specific error of law or policy in our prior decision. Rather, 
he requests a general reconsideration of his eligibility, which is insufficient to meet the requirements 
of a motion per 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The Petitioner adds bulleted information about his role as a "Scientist III" at Duniversity and 
states that his "salary is in the upper 90% of the salary offered for a Soil and Plant Scientist in the I I area as per the Bureau of Labor Statistics [(BLS)]." To evidence his salary, the Petitioner 
relies upon an offer letter dated December 2022; however, this cannot serve as evidence that would 
establish eligibility at the time he filed his initial petition in June 2021. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). USCIS 
regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time 
the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). A visa petition may not be approved based on 
speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See 
Matter of Michelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248,249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). 
Even if we considered the University job offer as evidence that could establish eligibility at the 
time of filing, the Petitioner's statement that his "salary is in the upper 90% ... for a Soil and Plant 
Scientist ... " would not establish eligibility under the salary criterion. The Petitioner has not offered 
sufficient evidence to establish that his job as either a "vocational agricultural teacher" or a "Scientist 
III" is the same as a soil and plant scientist. Even if this were established, it would not be sufficient, 
as the Petitioner merely asserts this statistic without offering corroborating evidence of it for our 
review. Finally, even if we found that he works as a soil and plant scientist and his salary is in the 
upper 90%, this would still be insufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner 
2 
has not explained how a salary in the "upper 90%" for the area" is high in relation to others 
in the field overall.1 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law 
or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, 
the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner presents no new or additional evidence on motion. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening the proceedings. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
1 In addition, a salary in the upper 90% would not necessarily support a finding that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25983002 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior project manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3(b ). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to judging and high salary, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
membership, original contributions of major significance, and leading or critical role criteria. After 
reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the requirements 
of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 4 
Here, the Petitioner rovided evidence indicatin that received an award for "Outstandin Product 
Design" from m 
February 2020. The Petitioner also submitted various screenshots from I !website that focus on 
the organization's yearly conferences, but this documentation does not relate to his specific award or 
demonstrate its significance in the field of endeavor. The record does not include evidence 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
2 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's award was recognized by the field in general rather than mainly 
limited to I I conference participants. Nor does the evidence show that any media coverage or 
attention relating to the Petitioner's award rises to the level of national or international recognition. 
Without further evidence regarding its national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his award is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence 
in the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he is a member of the Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He also presented information about the IEEE's membership 
criteria. The Director determined that these criteria (including years of experience, publication of 
papers, or development of courses) did not rise to the level of outstanding achievements. The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination on appeal. Without evidence indicating that 
the selection process for IEEE requires outstanding achievements and that admission to membership 
is judged by recognized national or international experts, we agree with the Director and conclude that 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner provided letters of support from colleagues discussing his 
projects for his employer and its clients. The Director addressed each of these letters and determined 
that they did not show the impact of the Petitioner's work at a level indicating original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner requests that we consider updated recommendation letters from three 
of his colleagues. As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor 
does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific 
"original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of 
major significance. 
A letter from O-P-, a senior technology architect with N-M-Inc., states that he and the Petitioner 
worked together at N-M-for six years. O-P-asserts that the Petitioner's work is "of major significance 
in his overall field due to his original contribution in building niche product/process not only in N-M-
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
3 
Inc., but with other organizations as well like H-Inc. who got benefited with [the Petitioner's] highly 
experienced problem-solving skills."6 Here, the lack of specific, detailed information does not show 
how the Petitioner's past work at N-M-Inc. or H-Inc. constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. In addition, while 0-P-contends that 
the Petitioner's work in machine learning and artificial intelligence helped build a process technology 
that N-M-utilizes for servicing thousands of its customers/users seamlessly, he does not explain how 
this technology has impacted the overall field rather than being limited to N-M-' s customers and users. 
In his letter, A-A-, a senior product engineering manager with C-company, asserts that the Petitioner 
has contributed to C-company, a technology services and consulting business, as a subject matter 
expert in its cloud automation/integration engineering department. A-A indicates that the Petitioner 
helped his "department to achieve best performing revenue earning in C-company. [The Petitioner] 
developed multiple products for C-company ( such as I 
I I etc.) used by C-company clients for their business needs with reduced cost and quick to 
market." The Petitioner's evidence, however, does not show that his work on these products has 
affected his industry in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his original contributions at C­
company have influenced the information technology industry to the extent that they are of major 
significance in his field. 
Additionally, a letter from G-M-, a researcher with M-M-company, states that the Petitioner 
"conducted a few conferences in my company . . . . He explained how we can upgrade our technology 
to take benefits using machine learning and artificial intelligence. He showed his previously 
developed products used by his company and their clients to fulfill goals of fixing repetitive problems 
using AI & machine learning." G-M-further asserts that M-M-company "started using [the 
Petitioner's] ideas in our company and getting better result in very short span of time," but he did not 
offer specific examples of how Petitioner's work has risen to the level of a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that 
his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
6 The Petitioner's resume indicates that he has worked on a project for H-Inc. since July 2021. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
8 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, a(J'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 9 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role for C-company.10 
His appellate submission includes a letter from D-R-, a human resources representative with C­
company, stating: 
As Manager-Projects, [the Petitioner] was responsible for critical [sic] in his field and 
for organizations (C-company and clients). He was responsible for completing the 
project lifecycle including project planning, scope/ schedule/ resource/ 
finance/stakeholder management and cross functional team management. He was 
responsible for planning project approach .... 
As Sr. Manager -Projects, [the Petitioner] is responsible for critical [sic] in his field 
and for organizations (C-company and clients). He is responsible for technical 
delivery of portfolios that span a broad range of systems and wide spectrum of 
technologies. He is responsible for the growth of client relationship and rapid business 
expansion within assigned accounts. 
The Petitioner also points to the letter from A-A-which asserts that the Petitioner "is one of our 
topmost performing critical employees in C-company." A-A-further states: 
I witness many projects in past where C-company stake was on risk, we were almost 
losing business to other competitors due to high escalation from client related to work 
deliverables, tight timeliness and team management/orchestration issues .... As soon 
as we deployed [the Petitioner] for helping existing project team, we started getting 
good results day-to-day. . . . [The Petitioner] helped us in understanding grass root 
problems, motivate/ orchestrate project team to take best out of them . . . . We saved 
multiple such projects in past because of [the Petitioner's] excellence in his field .... 
While the letters from D-R-and A-A-indicate that the Petitioner has effectively managed his 
"assigned accounts" and "projects," their statements are not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's role for C-company was leading or critical. Their letters help show that the Petitioner 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
10 Here, the Petitioner claims a leading or critical role for his company rather than for a department or division within his 
company. Furthermore. even ifhe had claimed a leading or critical role for his particular department, which he has not, 
he has not demonstrated that it has a distinguished reputation. 
5 
performed in a leading or critical role for his particular accounts and projects, but they do not show 
that his role was leading or critical for the company. For example, the Petitioner did not provide an 
organizational chart or other similar evidence to establish where his role fit within the overall hierarchy 
of C-company to demonstrate a leading role. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that he has 
contributed to C-company in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of its business 
operations.11 For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
We withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. In order to meet 
this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to the 
compensation paid to others working in the field. 12 The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion 
based on his salary with C-company as a senior project manager. In response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE), he provided his 2021 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, showing earnings of 
$118,355.78. The Petitioner's RFE response also included an October 2022 email from C-company 
stating that his salary was set to increase to $137,817.00 that same month. This salary increase, 
however, post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
As evidence that his salary is high relative to others in the field, the Petitioner presented information 
from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) showing mean hourly wages for broad occupational 
groups such as management, business and financial operations, computer and mathematical, and 
architecture and engineering. In addition, he provided salary data from CareerOneStop.org, 
Indeed.com, and Glassdoor.com showing mean and median salary data for the positions of project 
management specialist, senior project manager, and senior manager. Regarding mean and median 
salary data, the Petitioner must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field rather than a salary that is above average or 
that places him in the top half of his field. While the information from CareerOneStop.org and 
Glassdoor.com also shows a salary range from low to high, the Petitioner's earnings of $118,355.78 
falls below the high range in both instances. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that the broad BLS occupational groups and project 
management specialist position represent proper bases for comparison. The Petitioner must present 
evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison 
with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary 
information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. 
INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the 
11 For instance, the Petitioner has not shown that the amount of revenue generated from the specific projects he has managed 
represents a significant percentage of C-company's reported earnings. 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
6 
comparative salary data he offered shows that his earnings are high relative to others in his field. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25951460 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a makeup artist styled as a "micropigmentation specialist ," seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner either received a major, internationally recognized prize or award, or 
satisfied at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner then submitted an 
appeal; however, we summarily dismissed the appeal because it was not supported by a statement that 
specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being 
appealed. The matter is now before us on combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion 
to reconsider . 
Specifically, our review of this motion to reopen is limited to the issue of whether a new fact, supported 
by documentary evidence, establishes that we erred by summarily dismissing the appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). In tum, our review of this motion to reconsider is limited to the issue of whether we 
incorrectly applied a law or policy based on the record of proceedings at the time we summarily 
dismissed the appeal of the Form I-140. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits an undated, two-page brief that indicates it is "in support of [the 
Petitioner's] Appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office." However, the brief references our 
summary dismissal decision dated September 29, 2022, which the Petitioner acknowledges 
"specifically states that the appeal was being dismissed because Petition [sic] did not submit a brief 
specifying the reasons the Service made an incorrect decision on Form I-140." Therefore, the brief 
appears to be in support of the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, not 
in support of her appeal. The motion brief summarizes the preponderance of evidence standard and 
states, in relevant part, the following: 
In this case, petitioner has presented sufficient evidence, when reviewed in its entirety, 
to establish by the preponderance of the evidence, that petitioner meets at least three 
out often criterions set forth by regulations. We are not submitting a brief to refute the 
law since the only concern we present is the fact that the Service did not review our 
record in its entirety and we kindly request the AAO to review the evidence to remand 
the case to the Service for approval [sic]. 
The Petitioner does not state new facts on motion to reopen that may establish that, contrary to our 
summary dismissal, the Petitioner supported the appeal with a statement that specifically identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. Therefore, the 
submission does not satisfy the requirements of a motion to reopen. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). In 
tum, the Petitioner does not identify a law or policy we may have incorrectly applied in our summary 
dismissal. Therefore, the submission does not satisfy the requirements of a motion to reconsider. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In summation, the Petitioner has not submitted a new fact, supported by documentary evidence, 
sufficient to establish that we erred in concluding that the appeal was not supported by a statement 
that specifically identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2); 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). In addition, the Petitioner has not established that our 
previous decision to summarily dismiss the appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy and that it was incorrect based on the evidence then before us. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3); 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). The appeal remains dismissed and the petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24443183 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim or that she has risen to the 
very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an internationally competitive swimmer who intends to continue this activity in the 
United States. In the present case, the Director decided that the Petitioner had submitted sufficient 
documentation to meet the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), membership in associations 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published 
material about the Petitioner in professional or other major media. 1 Since the Petitioner met three of 
the ten initial criteria, the Director made a final merits determination and found that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim or that she is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of swimming. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision applied incorrect standards and did not 
analyze all of the evidence provided. The sole issue on appeal is therefore whether the overall record 
shows that the Petitioner has sustained a national or international level of acclaim, that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and that she is 
among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d at 1119-1120. Upon review, we 
find that the Petitioner has not established her eligibility. 
The Petitioner states that the Director applied overly strict standards to her petition. The Director's 
decision included a list of twelve swimmers who appeared in their internet search results for "ranking 
best women's swimmers in the world" and found that because the Beneficiary did not appear in this 
list, she was not one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of her field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner correctly notes on appeal that this analysis overlooks the fact that swimming is divided 
into different events by stroke and distance and a swimmer may be at the top of their field by being 
one of the best at their event. See, e.g., Muni v. INS, 891 F.Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (finding that a 
hockey defenseman should be compared to other defenseman rather than to all professional hockey 
players). However, this oversight does not affect the ultimate outcome of the appeal, as the Petitioner 
has not established that she has reached the very top of her field within her swimming disciplines. 
1 The Director also found that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)(viii), performing in a lead 
or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
2 
The Petitioner specializes in the 50-meter backstroke, 100-meter backstroke, and 100-meter freestyle 
events. According to the website of World Aquatics, 2 the governing body of international competitive 
swimming, the Petitioner's personal best times in the 50-meter backstroke and 100-meter backstroke 
events event occurred in 2015.3 In that year, 151 other swimmers had faster finishes in the 50-meter 
backstroke and 120 other swimmers had faster finishes in the 100-meter backstroke, sometimes on 
more than one occasion. 4 Similarly, at least 200 other swimmers had faster finishes than the Petitioner 
in the 100-meter freestyle in 2020, the year she had her personal best time in that discipline. 5 This 
does not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the top of her field in any of the 
swimming events in which she specializes. 
The Petitioner also cites Muni for the proposition that an athlete need only be "very good" in their 
field in order to establish eligibility. First, it is noted that we are not bound to follow the published 
decision of a United States district court, even in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of 
K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715, 718-720 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying such a decision will be given 
due consideration when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as 
a matter of law. Id. Furthermore, even taking this case into consideration, the self-petitioner in Muni 
provided evidence that he was considered one of the best defensemen in the National Hockey League 
and was a highly impactful player on championship teams. Muni v. INS, 891 F.Supp. at 444-445. As 
noted above, the Petitioner in this case has not similarly established that she is considered one of the 
small percentage at the top of her field. 
The Petitioner's brief also contends that the Director did not adequately weigh, among other factors, 
her record in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I competition, her "top 
awards at ... distinguished competitions beyond her country's borders," and her "medals at 
competitions sanctioned by the United States governing body for the sport," stating that these are 
evidence of her national and international acclaim. First, NCAA Division I competition is restricted 
to students at specific United States colleges and universities, which does not indicate that success in 
such competitions constitutes a form of national or international acclaim in the field of competitive 
swimming. See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -
First Step of Reviewing Evidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (noting that limitations on 
who may compete may indicate that a prize or award is not nationally or internationally significant). 
Similarly, the record indicates that the sanctioned U.S. competition specified by the Petitioner's brief, 
the Speedo Championships, was a sectional competition for swimmers from Texas and Louisiana, and 
which only allowed a limited number of swimmers from outside that geographic area. This does not 
establish that the Petitioner's success in that competition is a form of national or international acclaim. 
Id. Finally, the fact that the Petitioner has won medals in international competitions outside of 
2 World Aquatics was fonnerly known as Federation Internationale de Natation (FINA). Overview, 
https://www.worldaquatics.com /about. 
3 Results AQUA Official, https://www.worldaquatics.com/athletes.__ ________ 
(referring to the Petitioner's competition results in SO-meter pools) (last visited Apr. 11, 2023). 
4 Rankings, https://www.worldaquatics.com/swimming/rankings (filter by gender and event type; expand advanced filters 
to filter events by year; under "Times Mode", use the "All Times" filter to see the year's top finishes in an event or the 
"Best Times" filter to see a ranking of each individual swimmer's best time in the event that year) (last visited Apr. 11, 
2023). 
5 Id. 
3 
Uzbekistan and the United States does not establish that those medals are a form of international 
acclaim. The evidence provided to establish the prestige of the Bulgarian and Hungarian Open 
Championships consists of country profiles indicating that the competitions' host nations regularly 
send a number of swimmers to the Olympics. This does not establish what level of acclaim these 
competitions grant their medalists in the field of competitive swimming. 
The Petitioner contends that her membership in Uzbekistan's National Swimming Federation and 
National Olympic committee and her level of national success in swimming, including holding several 
national records, establishes her sustained national acclaim in her field. 6 We acknowledge that the 
Petitioner holds many Uzbek national records in swimming, has qualified for the Olympics twice, and 
competed at the London Olympics in 2012. However, the statutory requirement for the extraordinary 
ability classification is not only success, but being one of the small percentage in the top of one's field 
and having one's achievements recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
While the record indicates that the Petitioner has been one of the top female swimmers in Uzbekistan 
for over ten years, it does not contain extensive documentation of a level of recognition signifying that 
she is one of the small percentage at the top of her field. The media coverage of the Petitioner's career 
is largely from campus and local publications and a swimming news website writing about her 
collegiate competition career, and her recommendation letters are largely from her coaches and Uzbek 
sporting officials. Of the Russian and Uzbek news articles submitted, only one 2014 article is about 
the Petitioner, and the rest mention her as one member of various Uzbek sporting teams. This does 
not suffice to show that the Petitioner's achievements have been nationally or internationally 
acclaimed or that they have been recognized in her field through extensive documentation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The totality of the record does not establish that the Petitioner's achievements have translated into a 
sustained level of recognition that constitutes national or international acclaim or demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sep. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The petition will remain 
denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 In this as well as other instances in her briet: the Petitioner emphasizes that she meets several of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that this should establish her national or international acclaim. However. these criteria 
only describe the initial evidence that must be provided, at a minimum, in order to establish eligibility. The fact that a 
petitioner meets these minimum requirements does not, in and of itself, establish that they are eligible for the extraordinary 
ability immigrant visa. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24844951 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business data engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the beneficiary met any of the ten evidentiary criteria required to show eligibility for this 
visa classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business data engineer who intends to continue working in this field in the United 
States. Because he has not indicated or established that he has won a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner did not meet any of 
the following criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to assert that he qualifies under all of these criteria, as well as 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles in the field, which he had also claimed in 
the underlying petition. Upon a review of all the evidence, the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets at least three of the regulatory criteria, for the reasons below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion due to his membership in the following: 
• Amazon Web Services (A WS) Certified Global Community; 
• Association for Computing Machinery (ACM); 
• Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE); and 
• Data Quality and Data Governance Forum on Linkedln. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner's membership in these organizations is based on 
outstanding achievements in his field, as judged by recognized national or international experts in that 
field. The Petitioner submitted a certificate stating that he successfully completed the requirements to 
2 
be an "AWS Certified Solutions Architect -Associate," as well as documentation indicating that this 
certification requires the completion of certain coursework. 1 It is not apparent that being "AWS 
certified" constitutes membership in an association. Instead, a message from an administrator of the 
A WS Certified Global Community website indicates that they don't offer membership documentation 
because "this community is a benefit of being certified." Another screen capture of the A WS 
certification website indicates that the A WS Certified Global Community is a forum for certified 
professionals to communicate with each other. This does not establish that the A WS Certified Global 
Community is an association, or that being A WS certified constitutes membership in an organization. 
Instead, it indicates that A WS certification is a professional credential. Furthermore, the record does 
not indicate that completing the required coursework for A WS certification constitutes an outstanding 
achievement in the field of data engineering or that this is judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. 
The certificate from ACM stating that the Petitioner has been admitted for "Professional Membership" 
does not state the requirements for that membership, and the membership card for IEEE only states 
that the Petitioner is a "Member" in the "Germany section" without stating membership requirements. 
Finally, it is not apparent that a Linkedin forum such as the Data Quality and Data Governance forum 
constitutes an association, and the record does not include documentation of any membership 
requirements for that forum. Apart from the Petitioner's statements in his cover letters, there is no 
indication that any of these memberships require outstanding achievements in the field. It is the 
Petitioner's burden to submit sufficient relevant, probative, and credible evidence to demonstrate that 
his claims are more likely than not to be true. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. The 
Petitioner has not done so here. 
The documentation in the record does not establish that any of the Petitioner's memberships are based 
on outstanding achievements, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the 
Petitioner's field. The Petitioner does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on instances in which he judged the work 
of his colleagues. The Director concluded that this was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner had 
participated in a judge of the work of others. We will withdraw this finding. 
The letter from A-G-, who worked with the Petitioner atl I a Russian grocery and retail chain, 
states that the Petitioner interviewed, selected, and supervised a team of subordinate data engineers 
and was part of a performance review panel in May 2019. The letter states that the panel was part of 
the company's twice-yearly performance review process, and that its purpose was to evaluate the 
workers' KPis, or key performance indicators. This letter provides sufficient information to establish 
1 While the Petitioner's letter in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) states that A WS certification also 
requires "significant experience" in certain professional fields, this is not supp01ied by the documentation provided. 
Furthermore, professional experience in a field is not an outstanding achievement as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in that field, and so does not establish eligibility for this criterion. 
3 
that the Petitioner participated as a judge of the work of others in his field on this occasion. 2 The 
Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on his work forl I and forl I a 
division of the rail carrier _ I as well as his publications and a conference speaking 
engagement. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he made original contributions 
to his field and that those contributions have been of major significance to the field. 
At I I the Petitioner co-developed a corporate data warehousing project (DWH) which helped 
the company implement digital analytics and business intelligence in its operations. While the letters 
provided from the Petitioner's coworkers atl I indicate that DWH was helpful to the company, 
they do not show that his contribution was original or had major significance to his field beyond I I See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that contributions 
which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). For example, the 
initial letter from the Petitioner's supervisor atl I A-E-, states that the DWH, which was 
developed in 2010, "madel lone of the first data-driven companies in the corporate market." 
However, the petition does not contain documentation to support this assertion or to otherwise 
demonstrate that the DWH was an original and significant contribution to the field of data engineering. 
The Petitioner submits a screen capture of a 2018 article stating that I !developed a logistics 
portal for its suppliers which would increase the efficiency of its supply chain, 3 as well as a Cnews 
article about I I implementation of I I and documentation of a conference talk the 
Petitioner's manager gave about DWH. None of this documentation mentions the Petitioner by name 
or establishes what influence the Petitioner's work had on his field. The fact that some of the results 
of the Petitioner's work were publicized does not indicate that they were of major significance to his 
field beyond! I There is insufficient relevant, probative, and credible evidence in the record to 
establish the originality or impact ofDWH. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. 
Similarly, the record does not establish that the the 
Petitioner developed at had an influence on the Petitioner's field. A support letter from a 
coworker states that was used as the basis for various analytics projects at I I 
including the which tracks and analyzes freight car unit 
failures and has been highly successful for the organization. The Petitioner also submits a 2020 article 
from Cnews which discusses howl lwas developed withl from 2017 to 
2019. However, the article does not indicate what impact I I had beyond I I See Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th at 393-394. 
2 The Petitioner also submitted several other documents in support of this criterion, but because the letter from A-G-is 
dispositive of this criterion, we need not analyze them here. See INSv. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"). 
3 The screen capture is not a website printout and does not include the article's URL, which makes it difficult to verify and 
diminishes its evidentiary value. 
4 
A second article stating that I I was under consideration for inclusion in the Russian Software 
Registry does not establish the significance of this consideration. One expert quoted in the article 
states that I I customers and partners could theoretically employ its business 
intelligence platform when using its services, and that the organization could use its expertise to enter 
into the domestic business intelligence market. However, another quoted expert states that companies 
in different industries require individualized business intelligence solutions and a specialized platform 
like lwould be of limited use to other organizations. A third expert expresses doubt that I I I would develop business intelligence solutions outside its own enterprises. While this article 
speculates about the potential impact ofl I it does not establish what impact the Petitioner's work 
has actually had on his field. Furthermore, the Petitioner is not mentioned in any of the articles 
provided. This does not suffice to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his work forl I had significant impact on the field of 
data engineering. All of the Petitioner's letters of support are from his coworkers, and while these 
letters are probative, "[i]t is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim would have received recognition for his or her 
accomplishments well beyond the circle of his or her personal and professional acquaintances." See 
generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The evidence 
doesn't show that the Petitioner's contributions have been recognized beyond his immediate 
professional circle. While his colleagues recognize the Petitioner as a highly capable worker, this does 
not establish that his work has impacted his field in a major way. Id. at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary 
Ability Petitioners -First Step of Reviewing Evidence (stating that major significance to a field can 
be shown through means such as widespread commentary, impact, or adoption of a petitioner's 
contribution in that field). Finally, the various provided articles about the general importance of data 
analytics to corporations do not mention the Petitioner or his work. The record does not document 
how, specifically, DWH or I I influenced others in the field of data engineering. 
The Petitioner also states he qualifies for this criterion based on articles he posted on the website 
Medium. First, it is noted that the articles were not submitted with the evidence. Instead, the Petitioner 
provided the URL of each article. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof in this proceeding. Matter 
ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Referencing a website where evidence can be found does not 
meet this burden. While we have the discretion to verify the Petitioner's claims, we are under no 
obligation to obtain supporting evidence on the Petitioner's behalf or on his request. The URLs 
provided to not establish that the Petitioner's articles were original. 
Secondly, the record includes readership statistics indicating that the Petitioner's articles have been 
read between 66 and 526 times each. While the Petitioner states in his RFE response that "more than 
2500 professionals" have read his articles, he arrives at this number by adding up the total number of 
times all of his articles were viewed. Medium indicates that "Views are the number of visitors who 
clicked on a story's page, while Reads tells you how many viewers have read the entire story (an 
estimate)." Publication Stats Medium Help Center, https://help.medium.com/hc/en­
us/articles/215793317-Publication-stats. The number of views of the Petitioner's articles therefore 
does not reflect how many times the articles were read. It is also not apparent that each view came 
from a different individual. The Petitioner does not provide evidence showing that any of these 
readers cited his articles or were otherwise influenced by them, or that these readership figures 
distinguish him from other writers in his field. This does not establish eligibility for this criterion. 
5 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted examples of his postings on professional forums, as 
well as a few instances in which others in his field asked for his advice and assistance. However, the 
evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work in any of these instances was original or had 
an impact beyond the individuals whose questions the Petitioner was answering. Finally, the copy of 
the Petitioner's presentation at the 20221 !conference, his speaking invitation, and the general 
information about that conference do not establish his eligibility. The fact that the Petitioner spoke at 
a conference does not establish that his presentation was original or that it had an impact on his field. 
The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions to his field have been original or 
majorly significant to that field. As such, he does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on articles he published on the website 
Medium and provides the URLs where the articles are located, as well as general information about 
Medium's level of readership. However, since these articles are not included in the record, it is not 
apparent that they are scholarly in nature. A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in 
that field. See generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitioners 
-First Step of Reviewing Evidence ( defining "learned persons" as persons with profound knowledge 
or scholarship in a field). Furthermore, as noted above, the burden of proof in this proceeding is on 
the Petitioner. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. The URLs provided do not establish 
the substance or nature of the Petitioner's articles. While the Petitioner provided documentation 
indicating that Medium is a widely-read website, the evidence does not demonstrate that his articles 
were written for learned persons in his field. The record does not indicate that the Petitioner's articles 
are scholarly in nature. 
Additionally, while the Petitioner characterizes Medium as a professional or major trade publication, 
he does not provide sufficient documentation of Medium's subject matter or intended audience to 
support this claim. The fact that Medium is widely-read does not establish that it is a professional or 
trade publication in the Petitioner's field. Id. The Petitioner does not meet the requirements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on the pay he received in Russia and 
Germany from 2020 to 2021. The Director found that much of the evidence provided in support of 
this criterion did not match the Petitioner's stated occupation or consisted of incomplete website 
printouts that were insufficient to establish eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter with 
explanations of his evidence. Upon review, the Petitioner does not qualify for this criterion. 
In order to evaluate whether a petitioner has received significantly high remuneration for services, we 
compare their pay to that of similar workers in that petitioner's field. See, e.g., Skokos v. DHS, 420 
Fed.Appx. 712, 713-714 (9th Cir. 2011) (stating that a security consultant's salary should be compared 
6 
to that of other security consultants performing similar work). In this instance, much of the Petitioner's 
wage evidence is too general to establish that he has received significantly high remuneration in 
comparison to similar workers. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner earned the following remuneration in 2020 and 2021: 
• 2020 Russian earnings: 2,943,441 rubles; 
• 2021 Russian earnings (January to March): 680,252 rubles; and 
• 2021 German earnings (April to December): 84,286 euros. 
In order to establish that his 2020 and 2021 Russian earnings were significantly high, the Petitioner 
submits pay documentation, a cover letter, and screen captures from various websites. 4 One graph, 
which the Petitioner states is from habr.com, documents the average salaries for all information 
technology (IT) workers in various Russian cities in the second quarter of 2020. This graph indicates 
that the average such salary inl I where the Petitioner worked, averaged 80,000 rubles for the 
second quarter of 2020, or 320,000 rubles a year. However, this appears inclusive of all IT workers, 
not solely business data engineers, and so does not establish his eligibility. Id. 
Another graph the Petitioner states is from the same website indicates that the average 2020 wage for 
backend developers inl I was 110,478 rubles a month, or 1,325,616 rubles a year. It also 
states that the 75th percentile wage for these workers was 150,000 rubles a month, or 1.8 million rubles 
a year, and the 90th percentile wage was 200,000 rubles a month, or 2.4 million rubles a year. This 
document indicates that it is based on only 38 profiles, which limits its value in showing that the 
Petitioner's wages are significantly high in relation to similar workers. Additionally, while we 
acknowledge the Petitioner's statement that "backend developer" is the closest position he could find 
to his own specialty of data engineering, he did not provide information such as this website's 
definition of the duties of a backend developer or a list of relevant occupations that were surveyed. 
This is insufficient to establish that the wages for backend developers, as stated on this website, reflect 
wages of workers who are comparable to the Petitioner. 
A third screen capture, which the Petitioner describes as government statistics provided by Rosstat, 
surveys wages for different types of workers in the region ofl land states that the average 
monthly wage for "high-level qualification specialists" in October 2021 was 45,559 rubles a month, 
or 546,708 rubles a year. Since this wage survey includes workers in various industries unrelated to 
the Petitioner's specialty, it does not establish that the Petitioner receives significantly high 
remuneration compared to others in his field. 
4 As noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not submit website printouts for this evidence. Instead, he submitted various 
cropped screen captures of the websites he was citing, many of which were incorporated into his RFE response letter, and 
separately listed the URLs where he states the information came from. On appeal, the Petitioner states that he submitted 
the evidence in this fashion in order to print fewer pages and simplify his petition and that we should visit the URLs 
provided in order to view the original information. However, we determine eligibility based on the evidence submitted 
with the benefit request, which is contained in the record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(8); 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). It is 
the Petitioner's burden to submit sufficient relevant, probative, and credible documentation to establish eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 375-76. Submitting separate URLs and cropped 
screen captures diminishes the evidentiary value of the Petitioner's documentation here, because it is not apparent from 
the record of proceeding that the information provided comes from the same place as the URLs. 
7 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner's pay evidence for his work in Russia consists of invoices for 
services provided as a contractor. It is therefore not apparent that his remuneration is comparable to 
the information in the websites he provided, which consisted of the wages of salaried workers. The 
totality of the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's pay in Russia qualified as significantly 
high remuneration. 
Regarding his wages in Germany, the Petitioner submits a screen capture of a wage survey of German 
software engineers from the website of Robert Half, and highlights the fact that the average annual 
wage for such workers is 64,250 euros. However, the survey is for the wages of all software engineers, 
rather than data engineering specialists like the Petitioner. Further, the screen capture does not state 
how many wages Robert Half surveyed to make its findings, which limits the data's evidentiary value. 
The Petitioner also submits a table from the website iamexpat.com which states that the average IT 
wage in Germany is 60,563 euros a year. This similarly does not include information about how many 
workers were surveyed and applies to the Petitioner's industry as a whole rather than his position in 
particular, and so does not establish eligibility. 
The screen capture from Stepstone.de consists of a graph stating that the average wage for workers in 
business intelligence, which the Petitioner states is closest to his specialty, is 62,178 euros a year. This 
screen capture contains no information about how many workers were surveyed to arrive at this 
number, the geographical location where these workers were employed, or their specific duties. 
Notably, the graph also includes wages for workers in "databases," "IT architecture," and general "IT 
consulting." It is not apparent from this documentation that the "business intelligence" wage reflects 
that of workers who are comparable to the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner has not established that he commanded a high salary or other significant remuneration 
for his services in relation to others in his field. He does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the 
Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, regarding leading 
or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we 
need not address this ground because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve those issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25 (1976); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 
(BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
8 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted documentation of his successful career 
building data warehousing and business intelligence systems for various organizations, but has not 
demonstrated that these achievements have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25425005 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cancer research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in cancer research. He received his Doctor of Medicine 
degree from I !Medical University in 2011. At the time of filing in July 2022, he was 
employed as a physician and researcher in the abdominal oncology department of the National Medical 
Research Center for Oncology in !Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two additional criteria, 
membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and original contributions of major 
significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that membership in the association requires 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized 
2 
national or international experts. 1 The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based upon his 
membership in the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) and the Russian Society of 
Oncologic Urologists (RSOU). 2 
Regarding ASCO, within his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence of his membership and an article from ASCO titled "American Society of Clinical Oncology 
Criteria for High-Quality Clinical Pathways in Oncology." The article provides ASCO's criteria to 
assess the quality of pathway programs used by health plans and medical providers. On appeal, the 
Petitioner provides an online printout from ASCO' s website, indicating that the organization offers "a 
variety of membership categories and benefits designed to fit your career stage and specific needs." 
The above documents establish that ASCO is a professional association representing physicians and 
other health care professionals working in the field of oncology. There is no evidence (such as 
membership bylaws or other official documentation of membership criteria) showing ASCO's 
admission requirements, or that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements for membership with ASCO. 
Pertaining to RSOU, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership, the society's charter dated 
2018, and information about other members of the organization, including its president, executive 
director, and several board members. The Petitioner did not establish that the RSOU membership 
requirements rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Instead, based on the presented documentation, RSOU membership is open to those who "have 
reached the age of 18, who are oncologists, oncourologists, chemotherapists, radiologists, 
pathomorphologists, or specialists in related fields, who have a high professional level recognized by 
leading experts in the industry." The charter also indicates that membership decisions are made by a 
simple majority vote of members of the relevant bureau, either of a regional office or of RSOU. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence that RSOU requires anything other than the Petitioner having 
attained certain educational requirements to become a member of the organization. The stated 
educational requirements of the organization are not outstanding achievements. Although RSOU 
requires that prospective members provide evidence of "a high professional level," the record does not 
establish the process by which prospective members are evaluated by the relevant bureau. Therefore, 
the evidence does not demonstrate that RSOU imposes an additional qualitative criterion that amounts 
to an "outstanding achievement" requirement. Although on appeal the Petitioner highlights the fact 
that RSOU "votes on whether to accept members," this would be commensurate with many 
associations, as membership in any society must be reviewed and evaluated before acceptance. There 
is nothing to indicate that the RSOU selects members on the basis of outstanding achievements. 
In this case, the evidence does not demonstrate that ASCO or RSOU selects members based on 
outstanding achievements. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with other associations; however, 
he does not argue on appeal, nor does the record reflect, his eligibility based on those associations. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his contributions are not only original, 
but also "of major significance in the field."3 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner's statement provides that his scientific interest is "related to malignant tumors, their 
diagnosis and overcoming resistance to therapy." Specifically, his research work in Russia and the 
United States has involved "biomarkers that make it possible to predict the course of disease in patients 
with colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, and lung cancer." He indicated that his work focused on 
thel I known to show increased activity in some types of cancers. 
As stated, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original contributions and 
explain why they are of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner provided evidence 
reflecting the originality of his research through recommendation letters praising him for his 
contributions, the authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major 
significance. 4 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in 
journals, and comment on their potential and possible future applications. But the letters do not 
demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. For example, Dr. E-A-G, 
professor of molecular therapeutics at I I states that the Petitioner worked with 
her laboratory on two scientific studies. She indicates that one project was the first to show the 
possibility of using the I protein as a diagnostic biomarker and a possible therapeutic target 
for non-small cell lung cancer. That scientific work was published in Oncogenesis in 2021. She 
provides that the Petitioner "performed extensive work using cell line models for this project, as well 
as much of the patient-related research and interpretation of obtained data." 
Regarding an additional project with her laboratory, Dr. E-A-G-states the Petitioner studied the role 
of the 1 _ as a biomarker in 125 patients with colorectal cancer and in patients with 
colon polyps. The Petitioner's study, published in Plos ONE in 2021, found that elevated levels of I lwere associated with worse prognosis, metastasis, and risk of relapse following treatment, 
and indicated I I increase is an early step in cancer development. She asserts that the 
Petitioner's findings, coupled with other published work, support the use of _____ __,levels 
as a new diagnostic biomarker in patients with colorectal cancer, and suggest the utility of developing 
drugs to target! for the prevention of malignant tumors. 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy 
the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 While we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Dr. E-A-G-indicates that the research projects the Petitioner has performed "are of great importance 
for the development of new methods of treatment and diagnosis of cancer," but she does not explain 
how other researchers have used this information to date, nor does the record show that diagnostic or 
therapeutic treatments have been derived from those particular research projects. 
Additional letters of support from the Petitioner's colleagues at ________ including 
Dr. A-K-and Dr. I-A-, summarize the Petitioner's research work at that institution. Dr. I-A­
characterizes the Petitioner's findings as "a significant contribution to the development of diagnosis 
and prevention of colorectal cancer." His letter does not sufficiently detail in what ways the Petitioner 
has advanced the state of research in his field or elaborate on how the Petitioner's work has already 
impacted the wider field beyond the team ofresearchers that has directly cited his article on this topic. 
Further, the Petitioner provided letters from Dr. V-T-, a research fellow at thel I 
_____ and the Petitioner's mentor at thel I for Oncology. 
Dr. V-T-states that the Petitioner was responsible for the development and implementation of a new 
protocol,! for the treatment of esophageal cancer at the cancer center of 
thel I for Oncology. He asserts the new protocol "significantly 
improved the long term outcomes of treatment in patients in our community." 
Moreover, letters from Dr. Y-B-, an oncologist at indicates he collaborated 
with the Petitioner, both on the aforementioned research ro · ects at and on 
two separate projects. Regarding the Petitioner's work at he asserts "[t]he 
results shown by [ the Petitioner] in his research of the new biomarker ____ in colorectal cancer 
are [a] major contribution and have great significance to the development of health care, science and 
improving of cancer patients' life." However, he does not discuss in detail how the Petitioner's work 
has already remarkably impacted their shared field, or provide examples of specific applications 
attributed to the Petitioner's work in this area. 
Regarding the two additional projects referenced by Dr. Y-B-, he indicates one involved a patient 
study that "revealed 9 significantly up-regulated proteins, and 1 significantly down-regulated protein 
in colorectal cancer tissue." Regarding the study's significance, Dr. Y-B-states that "for the first time 
we have shown previously unknown information about 9 proteins in colorectal cancer." Relating to 
the second project, he provides that scientific work analyzed new therapeutic options and targets for 
glioblastoma multiforrne. He indicates the results of these projects were published, respectively, in 
The Protein Journal and the International Journal of Oncology. 
The letters considered above, solicited from the Petitioner's collea ues at I for Oncology, and primarily contain 
attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples 
of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
5 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. Attorney General, 745 F. Supp. 
9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990). 
The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research 
findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field, or explain how his 
research findings have already made a "major contribution and have great significance to the 
development of health care," as asserted. Simply stating that the work is important or that it has 
potential to majorly impact the field in the future is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining 
his accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters discussed above 
do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate 
with a contribution of major significance. 
In addition to the submitted expert opinion letters, the Petitioner references his overall citation record, 
provides copies of articles that include what he considers to be notable citations to his work, and 
submits the ranking of the journal that has published his most-cited work. Regarding his citations, 
within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting his 20 
scholarly publications have received 31 cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his 
two most-cited articles at the time of filing received 9 (The Protein Journal) and 6 (Oncogenesis), 
citations, respectively. 7 
Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. Rather, the appropriate 
analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown that his findings, factoring in citations and 
other corroborating evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "8 Here, the Petitioner did not explain 
how the noted citation rates demonstrate that his research was considered to be an original scientific 
contribution of major significance, and the referenced expert opinion letters did not discuss these 
individual publications and their impact within the field. Rather, a review of the submitted articles 
that reference the Petitioner's research does not show the significance of his contributions to the 
overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an article entitled 
published in Cancers in 2022, in which the authors 
cited to his most-cited article.9 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's 
written work from that of the other 182 cited papers, or support his claim that his research has had a 
major impact on other researchers. In fact, the authors' citations indicate that the Petitioner's research 
7 The Petitioner's remaining 18 articles each garnered between O and 3 citations. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
9 Although we discuss a sample article referencing the Petitioner's work, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
group was one of three groups who have confirmed that increased levels of lwere shown 
to be a marker for nonmetastatic colon cancer. This evidence confirms that others, in the United States 
and abroad, were able to build upon the Petitioner's work and apply it to their own research. But it 
does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of oncology rises to the level of an 
original contribution of major significance. 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that his most-cited work was published in a journal with 
a high ranking based on its impact factor. However, a publication's high ranking or impact is reflective 
of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the influence of any particular author 
within the field, how an author's research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings and 
the reference letters from his fellow oncology physicians establishes that the Petitioner has been a 
productive researcher. This evidence also shows that his published data and findings have been relied 
upon by others in their own research, and perhaps impacted treatment protocol in the hospital where he 
is employed. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major 
significance in the field of oncology. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. I 01-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 26351439 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer and entrepreneur, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record showed 
that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, it did not establish that 
she has national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of her field. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a fashion designer and the co-founder and CEO of 
Colombia, with several clothing stores and franchises in Colombia operating under the brand 
She is also the owner and CEO of ,I a Florida company which does business as I I and 
distributes the company's clothing in the United States. The Petitioner states that she intends to 
continue working in the United State to expand the brand into additional areas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her and her work, 
participation as a judge of the work of others, and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. However, the Director concluded in his final merits determination that the Petitioner did 
not have the requisite acclaim and standing in her field to qualify as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the criterion pertaining to commercial 
success in the performing arts, and that she otherwise qualifies for the requested classification. 1 She 
also submits additional information with her brief. Where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the 
AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 
764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). As the Director notified the 
Petitioner in his request for evidence (RFE) of the deficiencies in the evidence she initially submitted 
1 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's conclusions that she does not meet the cntena at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii),(v) and (ix), relating to evidence of her membership in associations which require outstanding 
achievements, her original business contributions of major significance, and her salary, respectively. In general, we will 
not address issues that were not raised with specificity on appeal. We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. 
See, e.g., Matter o(M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
and provided her an opportunity to respond, which she did, we will not consider the new evidence 
submitted on appeal. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that she 
meets the initial evidence requirements, and conclude that she is not eligible for the requested 
classification. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner meets this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the 
evidence presented or explain his reasoning. We note that the plain language of this criterion requires 
that the evidence of published material include the title, date, and author of the material. In this case, 
the majority of the articles submitted, while they are about the Petitioner and her work as a fashion 
designer and entrepreneur, do not include the name of the author. One article, published on the website 
of El Hera/do de Mexico, includes the author's name as well as the other required information, and 
the evidence establishes that it qualifies as a major medium. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she was a member of the jury for the _________________ beauty pageants in 2020, which can be considered 
an allied field to her specialization of fashion design. We agree with the Director that she meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
This criterion requires evidence that the individual's work has been displayed at an exhibition or 
showcase that is artistic in nature. The Petitioner submitted evidence that she exhibited clothing under 
the I I brand on three occasions at the ___________ Market, and at the I levent in I But there is no indication in the record that these events are artistic in 
nature. For example, the materials describing the __________ Market indicate that 
it is a commercial exhibition "for the business of fashion," and is attended by buyers representing 
boutiques and department stores. As such, we disagree with the Director and withdraw his conclusion 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
3 
In his decision, the Director stated only that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that she 
meets this requirement. On appeal, the Petitioner submits definitions of the words "commercial" and 
"success", concluding that the phrase means that "the performing arts have made a lot of money 
commercially." However, the Petitioner has not established that she is a performing artist, nor has she 
submitted evidence of the type specifically called for in the regulation. While the Petitioner submitted 
a letter from an accountant in response to the RFE which attested to her income and net worth, there 
is no suggestion that she earned this income as a performing artist. We therefore conclude that she 
does not meet this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because of our withdrawal of the Director's affirmative conclusion regarding the criterion related to 
artistic displays of the Petitioner's work, we conclude that she does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten 
criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not 
establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
While the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's work as a fashion designer and entrepreneur 
has been well received in her home country of Colombia, he concluded that the evidence did not show 
that it had received sustained national or international acclaim or that she is one of the small percentage 
at the very top of those fields. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to new evidence of her participation in 
additional trade exhibitions, a client suggesting that she has sold her apparel to more than 150 
boutiques, and evidence that a national retailer in the United States has ordered some of her apparel. 
As noted above, we will not consider this newly submitted evidence on appeal. In addition, eligibility 
for an immigration benefit must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a 
future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 
1981 ), further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the 
filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
While the Petitioner asserts that she has achieved international recognition and has risen to the top of 
her field through the establishment of her business and the sale of her apparel in Colombia, Ecuador, 
and the United States, the record does not include sufficient evidence that she has achieved the 
sustained recognition necessary for this highly restrictive immigrant visa classification. For example, 
media coverage of the Petitioner and her brand was almost exclusively published within the year 
before the filing of her petition. Further, the record does not adequately document any financial 
success for as a business or for the Petitioner personally. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23373821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a theatrical producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and commercial successes).1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to published material, display, leading or critical role, and commercial 
successes, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards criterion. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record, and that this evidence establishes that he qualifies under the high standards of this 
immigrant visa classification. The Petitioner further contends that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim as a theatrical producer, that his achievements have been recognized in the 
performing arts, that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field, and that his work will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The Petitioner first asserts that because he has satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he should qualify for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
ability. Objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone, however, does not establish 
that an individual in fact meets the requirements for classification as a person with extraordinary 
ability. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The question of whether the individual is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys sustained national or international acclaim 
should be addressed in the final merits determination. The Kazarian decision sets forth the 
aforementioned multi-part analysis in which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first 
meets the initial evidence requirements of a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at 
least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Kazarian does not state that meeting 
three of these criteria establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, the Kazarian decision 
discusses a two-part review where the evidence is first counted and then, if fulfilling the initial 
evidence requirements, considered in the context of a final merits determination to determine whether 
a petitioner is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor 
consistent with the statute and regulations for this restrictive classification. The Petitioner, therefore, 
has not established that the Director misapplied Kazarian or erred in proceeding to a final merits 
determination. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not properly consider all of the evidence submitted and 
improperly disregarded pieces ofrelevant documentary evidence. Upon de novo review, we agree with 
the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety 
and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final 
merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to two of the criteria that the Director 
determined the Petitioner had satisfied (published material and leading or critical role), rather than 
considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did not address the 
evidence relating to display of the Petitioner's work and his commercial successes in the performing 
arts and whether that evidence shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that 
he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 3 The record also includes 
multiple letters of support from performing arts professionals in Brazil that address the Petitioner's 
standing in the field, as well as evidence related to the significance of his awards. Because the Director 
did not properly consider all of the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did 
not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested 
classification. 4 
In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown that his "entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States." Although neither the statute nor the regulations specifically 
define the statutory phrase "substantially benefit," it has been interpreted broadly. 5 Whether a 
petitioner demonstrates that their employment meets this requirement requires a fact-dependent 
assessment of the case. There is no standard rule as to what will substantially benefit the United 
3 Additionally, while the Director's decision acknowledged that the Petitioner "won awards," it did not specifically explain 
why his awards did not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of the field. 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953 (Assoc. Comm. 1994) (golfer of beneficiary's caliber will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States given the popularity of the sport). 
3 
States. 6 In denying the petition on this basis, the Director stated that "there is no evidence explaining 
how the Petitioner's work will be advantageous and of use to the interests of the United States on a 
national level." In his personal statement accompanying the petition, however, the Petitioner indicated 
that he plans to establish his own theatrical production company in the United States. He explained 
that his establishment of a theatrical production company will benefit our nation through his monetary 
investment, the creation of jobs for U.S. workers, the strengthening of the cultural vibrance of the 
United States, and the positive impact on the U.S. economy. The Director's decision did not 
specifically consider these proposed benefits or explain why they were insufficient to demonstrate that 
the Petitioner will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as indicated above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the grounds for denial of the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at 
least three criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The 
new decision should include a final merits analysis of the totality of the record, including the evidence 
submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
addition, the new decision should consider the Petitioner's specific statements explaining how his 
work will substantially benefit prospectively the United States, including the arguments made on 
appeal. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(3). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23193901 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive swimmer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibi I ity, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate her eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet four criteria. The Director found that the Petitioner 
satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material in professional or major media at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied 
these criteria. 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the regulatory requirements for membership in 
associations that require outstanding achievements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), or for leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has satisfied both evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies at least three of 
the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner claims she performed a leading or critical role with an organization of distinguished 
reputation through her roles as team captain and swimmer for the University 
women's swimming and diving team. The Director evaluated the evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's role with the women's swimming and diving team, finding that although the Petitioner 
had a leading role with the women's swimming and diving team as its team captain, she did not 
have a leading or critical role with the overall organization of The Director explained that the 
2 
criterion requires a leading or critical role for an "entire organization, as opposed to a department, 
component, time frame or season within the organization." The Director's analysis is incorrect, as 
USCIS policy states that the leading or critical role may be "for an organization, establishment, or a 
division or department of an organization or establishment." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(2) (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Therefore, consideration may be given 
to the Petitioner's leading or critical role within a division or department of including her team 
captain role within women's swimming and diving team. Therefore, the Director's finding is 
withdrawn. 
The record indicates that during the Petitioner's senior year at she served as co-captain for the 
Owomen's swimming and diving team. For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
individual is (or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is (or was), in fact, leading. Id. Evidence shows as a team captain, the Petitioner provided mentoring 
and support to her teammates, and led the team to winning thel ITeam Championships. 
A letter from the team's associate head coach,I I states that the Petitioner "served as a co­
captain of the team, as voted to the position, by her fellow teammates" showing "outstanding 
leadership, accountability, positivity, and dedication toward her teammates. Her contributions as a 
team leader, as well as exemplary student-athlete, were extremely valuable to our Swimmin and 
Diving program's culture and success." Another letter from the team's head coach, 
confirms the Petitioner's captain role and details her accomplishments, including multiple 
swimming records. The record shows that during her time as team captain, the Petitioner was named I !swimmer of the year and was one of a limited number of swimmers who qualified 
for and competed at the NCAA championships where she set aDschool record. She also helped 
her team to a conference title at the I I championships by setting a meet record and 
winning a gold medal in the 100 meter freestyle event; winning gold medals in the 50 meter freestyle 
and 100 meter backstroke events; and being part of three gold medaling relay team events. The record 
demonstrates the Petitioner perf01med a leading role for the women's swimming and diving team 
as its team captain. 
The record also shows the0women's swimming and diving team has a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. (citing to the definition of Distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com). News articles and statistics in the record 
detail the team's accomplishments during the Petitioner's time on the team, and the team's rankings 
from 2017 to 2020. Ranking statistics froml lcom indicate for the year 2020, the team was 
ranked in its conference; I I in NCAA Division I mid-major, and in NCAA Division I. 
News articles show multiple wins and accomplishments of the team and its individual team members, 
including the team having won seven consecutive ____ Championships. The recognized 
accomplishments of the team sufficiently demonstrate the team's distinguished reputation under the 
criterion. 
Based on this evidence, we find that the Petitioner has met the requirements of this criterion. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Beneficiary satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Beneficiary has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
3 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372976 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 25, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician and contends he has a track record of success and sustained national and 
international acclaim. The Petitioner further stated he is an accomplished gastroenterologist who assumed 
key positions within distinguished medical and heath institutions. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have 
satisfied nine of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (v), alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of 
major significance in the field 
• ( vi), evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media 
• (vii), display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work of others 
and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner withdraws the criteria of membership 
and published material about the individual but asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's judging the works of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. When determining 
whether an individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: the criteria used to grant the awards 
or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he was recognized by appearing on the 2008 Saude Analise's list 
of the He provided a printout of the magazine 
article awarding him the title, and explained the candidates are selected by other doctors who have the 
scientific knowledge necessary to judge their colleagues in the industry. The Petitioner also provided 
an article, dated 2013, from SEMPR that stated the Yearbook Analise Saude 2013 had 
published a list of 2,000 doctors who had been chosen as "most admired" in their specialties by their 
medical colleagues. However, the record does not fully explain, or present evidence, regarding the 
selection processes. Nor does it contain sufficient information or supporting evidence about the 
competition that would support the Petitioner's claim that these awards should be considered a national 
or international award for excellence in the field of gastroenterology. Absent, for example, 
information regarding the number of competitors in the Petitioner's category, or evidence of how the 
medical colleagues select their top doctors, or evidence of the level of recognition associated with this 
award, we cannot find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than having major significance to 
a project or to an organization. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022)(citing 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013)). The regulatory phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 
(2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute is to be given effect and none should 
needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate another provision or to have no 
consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than 
being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes that the 
Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that his published work, funded research, and peer reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals show the significance of his contributions to his field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits articles he authored and a citation record that indicated his work was cited 50 times. 
3 
The Petitioner contends his articles were published in leading journals. Although we acknowledge 
the achievement of publishing articles in journals, what is lacking is the Petitioner's account of how 
that equates to this criterion's requirements. While being published in prestigious journals certainly 
suggests the Petitioner's research is valuable, it does not necessarily mean that his valued research has 
significantly contributed to the field as a whole. Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of major significance. The Petitioner did not establish 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
His arguments regarding the collective or total number of citations to his published work also fails to 
meet this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner focuses on his total number of citations, but not on 
any particular single article while also comparing that recognition to other leading articles in his field. 
In general, the comparison of a Petitioner's cumulative citations to those of others in the field in an 
attempt to draw a conclusion of their comparative impact in the field, is often more appropriate within 
a final merits determination after they have satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. Such a 
comparison may assist in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
We view a comparison of citations to individual scientific articles to be more relevant for this criterion 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate 
her impact in the field as a whole). For example, he did not provide the citation rates of other 
recognized contributions of major significance within the field for comparison purposes. Nor has the 
Petitioner shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed unusual reliance on his work. The 
Petitioner also did not establish what an average or high citation rate is within his specialized field. 
Even considering the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, we still conclude he has not 
shown that his work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The plain language of this criterion limits it to artistic exhibitions and showcases rather than scientific 
ones. The Petitioner claimed his evidence qualified as comparable evidence for consideration. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily 
apply to a petitioner's occupation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that doctors do not have their work displayed in artistic exhibitions 
or showcases because it does not apply to that line of work. Instead, the Petitioner states that 
comparable evidence for this criterion is published work presented and exhibited in scientific 
meetings, medical symposiums and conventions. With regard to display of the person's work, the 
evidence must demonstrate that the venues were "artistic" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
4 
For instance, a scientific researcher who displays his work at a conference, symposium, workshop, or 
meeting would not meet the requirements of this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1122 (9th Cir. 2010) (finding that self-publishing a textbook, lecturing at a community college, and 
presenting at conferences were not displays at artistic exhibitions or showcases consistent with the 
relevant regulatory language). Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this 
criterion, including through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
F.2(B)(2)(Appendices). If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the 
organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy 
reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. (citing to 
the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The 
Petitioner's do not. 
The Petitioner stated that he currently holds a critical position at _______ in Florida as a 
research fellow. He further explained that is consistently ranked as one of the best hospitals in the 
United States. I !Manager and Research Program/MDT Coordinator, stated that a 
research fellow in colorectal surgery department is a critical position as they conduct clinical 
research, formal study meetings, administrative meetings, and a weekly formal course in clinical research 
methodology. She also explained how the Petitioner designed studies and wrote manuscripts and 
conducted important research that assisted in the continued advancement of the industry overall. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I lof the Digestive 
Disease Center and Chair of the Department of Colorectal Surgery. I I stated that Oinvited 
the Petitioner to relocate in the United States and collaborate and contribute further developing medical 
knowledge in his area of expertise. He further indicated the Petitioner has been a "highly active member 
of important research projects," and the information derived from these projects will provide0with 
data for future studies and help obtain further grants and awards. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends he plays a leading role atD as noted in the support letters. Although 
the two letters fromOconfirm the importance of the Petitioner's contributions as a research fellow, 
they do not establish that he performed a leading or critical role forOas a whole, such as by showing 
he influenced its overall reputation or status, or was responsible for the success of the organization. 
While the Petitioner worked on research projects to enhance program, and thereby supported its 
mission, he did not provide sufficient documentary evidence to show that his duties and 
responsibilities were critical to the greater organization. The two letters do not describe with sufficient 
detail how the Petitioner himself played a critical role in the successesDenjoyed. Although Mr. I lstated that the Petitioner's involvement in research projects contributed to new data and 
possibly more funding for future projects, he did not provide specific examples. Every employee 
fulfills some kind of role that benefits their employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that his work for was critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of 
specific, limited tasks or projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner further contends that he played a critical role as co-founder of a medical practice 
in Brazil, the (IPC). The Petitioner submitted a letter from IPC's Technical 
Director confirming that from 1982 to 2018 the Petitioner was IPC' s founder and chief of staff, attending 
physician, gastrointestinal surgeon, and researcher. While it does appear as though the Petitioner played 
a leading role as founder and chief of staff at IPC, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence that 
IPC enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that INBRAP, the Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion and Research, 
awarded the practice I I in 2005 for the category of Ambulatory Care Services. According 
to a print-out from INBRAP's website, the award is given annually to "companies, entities and 
professionals that really make a difference .... " It also stated that the award is considered one of the most 
important "marketing" awards. Without further information, we cannot determine that a company with 
this award should be considered one with a distinguished reputation. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the Petitioner performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The 
letters considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rose to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden 
6 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); 
see also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 
712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The burden 
is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not 
limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different 
countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would 
be considered high in the United States. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the senior accountant in charge of his personal and corporate tax 
returns in Brazil. The letter stated thel I is solely owned by the 
Petitioner and the company was structured to register the income from the Petitioner's professional 
activities as a doctor. He explained the Petitioner has full control of the company and the company's 
profits are reported as regular income on the Petitioner's individual income tax forms. The Petitioner 
also provided copies of his 2010-2019 Brazilian personal income tax returns. The Petitioner did not 
provide a full translation of these documents but instead provided partial translations. Any document 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit properly certified English language translations, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's 
claims. 
Nor did the Petitioner provide any documentation regarding the company to corroborate the claim that 
the Petitioner owns it. Without information of the company's ownership and without a full translation 
of his tax documents, it is impossible to determine if the Petitioner's full income arose from his work 
as a doctor. It is not clear if the Petitioner's income tax return shows the income he received as the 
owner, or as a doctor. Without sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's compensation as a physician, 
we are unable to compare the Petitioner's income with the submitted wage data. 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
7 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 01, 2023 In Re: 27573483 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a technical program manager in the field ofdata storage, seeks classification as an alien 
ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by meeting at 
least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he has expertise in the are of data storage technologies, and that he intends 
to continue to work in this area in the United States with his current employer. The record shows that 
he has several years ofexperience in this field, particularly in the role ofa technical program manager 
with responsibility over sales, marketing, and technical functions for data storage products. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner meets two of 
the evidentiary criteria, relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and a leading or critical role for 
organizations with a distinguished reputation. Because he concluded that the Petitioner did not meet 
two additional criteria that he claimed, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the 
classification's initial evidentiary requirements, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner notes that although the Director stated in his request for evidence (RFE) that 
the Petitioner met a third criterion, pertaining to his participation as a judge of the work of others in 
his field, this criterion was not considered in the Director's decision. The Petitioner also asserts that 
the letters from experts in his field sufficiently established that he has made original contributions of 
major significance to his field of expertise. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted several types of evidence in support of this criterion, including emailed 
invitations to review manuscripts submitted to journals and invitations to serve as an advisory board 
2 
member for start-up companies. However, the plain language of the regulation requires evidence of 
participation as a judge of the work of others, and evidence of an invitation to participate as a judge 
does not meet that requirement. In addition, the Petitioner has not established that even if he had 
accepted these invitations, they would qualify as judging the work of others in the same or allied field 
as his, data storage. For example, two of the invitations are from the journal IEEE Potentials and do 
not appear to be related to data storage technologies. 
The Petitioner also submitted an email from the editor of International Journal of Information 
Management, thanking him for reviewing an article on data governance and security. Based on this 
evidence, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner meets this criterion. Based upon the evidence 
ofthe Petitioner's authorship ofarticles published in scientific journals such as Applied Physics Letters 
and Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing, we agree. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played either a leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment, or a division or department thereof. In addition, they must show 
that that organization, establishment, department, or division has or had a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the 
evidence. We first note that the evidence includes information about the reputation ofthe Petitioner's 
current and former employers, .___________ ____. but not about the reputation of the 
department or divisions of those employers in which he worked. As this evidence shows that both of 
those companies have a distinguished reputation, we will therefore determine whether the Petitioner's 
roles are or were leading or critical for those establishments as a whole. 
The evidence regarding the Petitioner's role at I !consists oftwo letters from executives 
of the company, who discuss his role as OEM Segment Lead for I ~ 
Although this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner played a leading role for I I Iin this position, it does show that he performed in a critical role for the company. In this role, 
the Petitioner was responsible for business management, product development, sales, and marketing 
of the company's enterprise solid state storage products, and was credited with "more than $1 B worth 
of design wins." The evidence demonstrates that as a key player for the company's data storage 
business, the Petitioner played a critical role for I I We therefore agree with the 
Director's conclusion that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has established that he meets the initial evidence requirement for classification as an 
individual ofextraordinary ability by meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and has therefore 
overcome the basis for the denial ofhis petition. However, as noted above, meeting the initial evidence 
3 
requirement does not suffice to establish eligibility for this classification. On remand, the Director 
must conduct a final merits determination, weighing the totality of the evidence to determine whether 
the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the 
very top ofthe field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In doing so, the Director should consider evidence submitted in support of 
all ofthe evidentiary criteria claimed by the Petitioner, including those not addressed in this decision. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. When reviewing the letters written by experts in the field, the Director should consider the 
sufficiency of statements regarding contributions and innovations made by the Petitioner which are 
not otherwise supported in the record. The Director's review should also consider the evidence 
submitted in support of the Petitioner's appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Petitioner has overcome the basis for the denial of his petition, we remand this matter for the 
Director to consider the totality of the record in a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 2, 2023 In Re: 27572282 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a medical doctor who researches rare diseases, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(1 )(A). This category requires petitioners to demonstrate sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognition of their achievements in their fields of expertise through extensive 
documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that, in her field, the Director overlooked proof of her satisfaction of other evidentiary 
criteria, including : receipt of national awards for excellence; membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievement; and original, scientific contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated original, scientific contributions of major 
significance to her field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision. Because the 
Director did not make a final merits determination as to whether the Petitioner established 
extraordinary ability in the field, we will also remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 1 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b)(l), (2). We do not find her personal 
appearance necessary to resolve this matter. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) . Ifa petitioner meets either of these initial evidentiary requirements , U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements that demonstrate a 
noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an Indian native and citizen, is a licensed 
physician who works in the United States as 
a clinical assistant professor at a medical school and a doctor at a hospital. She also independently 
researches rare diseases lacking treatment protocols. In 2016, she successfully self-petitioned in the 
employment-based, second-preference (EB-2) immigrant visa category, earning a "national interest" 
waiver of the category's job-offer requirement. See section 203(b )(2)(B)(ii) of the Act. 2 
The Petitioner does not claim -nor does the record indicate -her receipt ofa major international award. 
She must therefore meet at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director found that, in the Petitioner's field, she demonstrated her participation as a judge of 
others' work and as an author of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). She asserts 
further qualifications in the field as a: recipient of national awards for excellence; member of 
associations requiring achievements that recognized national or international experts judged to be 
outstanding; and provider of original contributions of major significance . See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v). 
Contrary to the Director's decision, we find sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's "original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Under this criterion, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has made 
original contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2) App'x, 
www.uscis.gov/policy -manual. Ifso, the Agency then considers the contributions' significance . Id. 
Contributions do not necessarily have major significance just because they are original. Id. A 
petitioner must submit evidence of their importance, such as their generation of widespread 
commentary, notice from others working in the field, or citations. Id. 
The Petitioner contends that her research on rare diseases constitutes original contributions in her field. 
She says these contributions have major significance because other clinicians use her research as "de 
facto guidelines" in treating rare diseases. 
2 Noncitizen physicians may receive national interest waivers in the EB-2 category if: they qualify as members of the 
professions holding advanced degrees or noncitizens of"exceptional ability;" agree to work full-time as physicians in areas 
lacking health care professionals or at U.S. veterans hospitals; and federal agencies or state health departments find their 
proposed work to be "in the public interest." Sections 203(b)(2)(A), (B) of the Act. 
2 
-----------The record establishes the Petitioner's ori inal contributions to the field. Evidence shows her 
discoveries, for exam le, that a previously ignored contaminant, can cause 
infection and that, ____ -a cancer medication, causes infection-like symptoms in some patients . 
The Director, however, concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her original 
contributions have major significance. The Director faulted evidence that her published research 
articles had been downloaded from the Internet more than 40,000 times. The Director noted that, 
without evidence of the downloads' purposes, their number does not establish the significance of the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Director acknowledged letters from other physicians praising the Petitioner's original research. 
But the Director stated: "None of the letters specifically articulate how the petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field as a whole, nor provide specific analysis of the impact of any 
contributions on subsequent work." The Director found that the record lacks examples of "real world 
applications" that benefited from the Petitioner's work and are widely accepted in the field. 
The Director, however, overlooked evidence of the significance of the Petitioner's original 
contributions . We acknowledge that the number ofresearch article downloads was not probative . But 
she submitted other documentation demonstrating that, since 2017, her 34 published aiiicles have 
generated more than 120 citations from researchers, including one article with 17 citations. This and 
other evidence shows that her original research has significance. 
Also, letters from other doctors indicate that the importance of the Petitioner's original research is 
substantial. A German professor of nuclear medicine praised the Petitioner's research on 
and other "contaminants." The professor stated that the Petitioner's 
treatment protocols for these newly discovered infectants "vastly improve the chances of successful 
treatment of such rare infections in patients worldwide ." The professor also noted that, in discovering I I link to periaortitis, an inflammatory condition typically affecting the abdominal aorta, 
the Petitioner used PET (positron emission tomography) scans to diagnose inflammation . The 
professor stated: "These findings help radiologists increase differential diagnosis whenever features 
of periaortitis are found." 
Further, a doctor at l !Hospital stated that the Petitioner's original research on rare 
diseases "helps prevent misdiagnosis leading to increased healthcare and legal costs." The doctor also 
stated that the Petitioner's research has proved the efficacy ofnext-generation DNA ( deoxyribonucleic 
acid) sequencing and PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing in diagnosing infections from rare 
pathogens and unusual presentations of common pathogens in hospital settings. 
Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated 
original scientific contributions to her field of major significance. Because she meets at least three of 
the 10 initial evidentiary standards, we need not review the Director's findings regarding her claimed 
receipt of national awards for excellence in the field and membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements in the field. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their decisions); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach an alternative appellate 
issue where an applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested relief). 
3 
The Director did not consider whether the Petitioner has received sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognition of her achievements sufficient to demonstrate extraordinary ability in her 
field. Because we decline to make this final merits determination in the first instance, we will remand 
the matter. 
On remand, the Director should review the entire record and determine whether the Petitioner has 
established herself among the small percentage who have risen to the very top ofher field of endeavor. 
The Director should then enter a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner met the preliminary evidentiary requirements of the requested immigrant visa category. 
USCIS must now determine whether she has demonstrated extraordinary ability in her field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 02, 2023 In Re: 27098134 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a long-distance runner, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )( 1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate she meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or in the alternative, by submitting evidence that 
meets at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish she seeks to continue work in her area of extraordinary 
ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act makes visas available to noncitizens who: 
• have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
• seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area ofextraordinary ability, and 
• will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a long-distance runner who primarily competes in marathon and half-marathon 
events. She indicates her intent to continue to train for and compete in long-distance events at the elite 
level in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner claimed that she could meet the initial evidence requirements based on her receipt of a 
major internationally recognized award. She also submitted evidence relating to four ofthe ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about her and her work; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to demonstrate that she 
had a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that she met any 
ofthe four claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director's 
decision ignored probative evidence in the record, failed to give evidentiary weight to credible 
documentation, and applied erroneous legal standards in evaluating these criteria. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards and failed to 
consider relevant evidence with respect to several criteria. Based on these deficiencies, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires evidence of a petitioner's receipt oflesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. At the time of filin the Petitioner 
provided evidence ofher first-place finishes in the 2019 and 2020 Run, the 2019 IMarathon, the 2020I I Half-Marathon, and the 2019~---~Marathon, 
2 I 
among other events. She provided official race results confirming her top placement among large 
fields of competitors at these events, as well as media coverage of the events and her victories. In 
evaluating this criterion, the Director did not mention any ofthe specific events in which the Petitioner 
was a top finisher. The decision noted the Petitioner's "receipt of marathon completion/participation 
certificates" and her submission of"marathon results webpages," observing that such evidence is "not 
considered [ evidence of] receipts of prizes or awards" because it "simply recognizes an individual 
who participated and/or finished a marathon, including where they finished compared to other 
participants." The Director did not farther explain why such evidence did not establish the Petitioner's 
receipt of awards or prizes in her sport or why the official race results were deemed irrelevant. We 
conclude that the Petitioner met her burden to demonstrate her first-place finishes in the above-listed 
races and established her receipt of the damed awards or prizes. 
Further, although the record contains supporting documentation such as media articles relating to the 
events and the Petitioner's top finishes, the Director was dismissive of this evidence in evaluating 
whether she established that her awards meet the "nationally or internationall reco nized" element 
of this criterion. For example, she submitted evidence that the annual Run 
receives considerable international media coverage, while the ~----~Marathon was featured 
by publications such as theI I Chronicle, Outside, and Runners World. The record also 
indicates that thel IMarathon has been designated by USA Track and Field (USA TF) as 
a qualifying event for the Boston Marathon and the Olympic Team Trials and is therefore considered 
a significant race among elite runners. 
The Director deemed the articles not probative because the Petitioner did not establish that they were 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, a requirement that does 
not appear in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Director similarly appeared to require 
the Petitioner to establish she has received awards that are "coveted by all distinguished marathon 
runners, evincing your national or international recognition in the field." However, the first step of 
the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to determining whether 
the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. This limited determination does not require an 
assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a petitioner's sustained national or 
international acclaim or recognition. On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence 
submitted under this criterion, as well as evidence provided in support of the Petitioner's claim that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award or prize. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's claim that she is a member of associations in her field that require 
outstanding achievements of their members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Director's decision 
does not acknowledge the supplemental evidence she provided in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) and therefore appears to be based on an incomplete review of the record. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires evidence ofpublished material about an individual 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for 
which classification is sought. The Petitioner submitted dozens of exhibits in support of this criterion 
at the time of filing and additional evidence in response to the RFE. The Director concluded that none 
of the submitted articles were published in a professional or major trade publications or other major 
3 
media, but the decision does not reflect that the Director fully reviewed the evidence in reaching this 
conclusion. For instance, while the decision correctly indicated that user-edited websites such as 
Wikipedia are not reliable primary sources of information, the Petitioner did not significantly rely on 
user-edited or other potentially unreliable websites to support her claims. Further, the Director made 
statements suggesting that all submitted articles from online sources were deemed to be unreliable and 
were not given any evidentiary weight under this criterion. The Director specifically stated that "[t]he 
record lacks evidence that online sites constitute major media or a professional or major trade 
magazine," notwithstanding the Petitioner's submission of online articles published by newspapers 
and magazines such as thel !Chronicle and Runners World. The Director did not provide 
sufficient explanation for the blanket rejection of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
and is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence on remand. 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not address the evidence she submitted with any specificity and instead summarily 
concluded that the evidence was insufficient because it was limited to solicited letters from persons 
who coach her or are otherwise acquainted with her. The Petitioner emphasizes that the submitted 
letters, some ofwhich were from independent experts, were intended to be read in the context of other 
evidence relating to her contributions to her sport and asserts the Director did not consider the evidence 
in its totality. We agree, and further note that the decision does not acknowledge the Petitioner's 
specific claimed original contributions to her field as articulated in the record. As the decision only 
vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without discussing the content of the 
letters or any other documentation provided, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims 
and all supporting evidence when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
An officer must fully explain the specific reasons for denying a visa pet1t10n. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, for the reasons discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately 
explain the reasons for denial. As such, the Petitioner was not provided a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully 
explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to 
challenge the determination on appeal). 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief: which further addresses the previously submitted evidence. In addition, 
the Director should review the Petitioner's appellate arguments pertaining to the Petitioner's intent to 
continue working in her area of extraordinary ability in the United States as required by the statute and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), before issuing a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
4 
or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 02, 2023 In Re: 27773464 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pastry chef, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by submitting 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastry chef who intends to continue working as such in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that they meet 
four evidentiary criteria. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and therefore does not meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
As explained by the Director in his request for evidence (RFE) and his decision, any document in a 
foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner 
did not submit a properly certified English language translation of any of the foreign language 
documents in the record, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate 
and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 The Petitioner does not reassert her claim to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) relating to commercial success 
in the performing arts. We consider this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 
2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the 
court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
I The Petitioner submitted an article posted to the website of a television station reporting on news inIRussia, ww~ IThe article consists of an interview of the Petitioner about her 
training and work as a pastry chef in the United States. In his decision, the Director first noted that 
this article, which was submitted in English, was not accompanied by a certification from a translator. 
In addition, the Director noted that this material was not accompanied by evidence that this website 
qualifies as either a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Evidence of 
published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications 
about the Petitioner should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and show who the intended audience ofthe publication is, as well as the title, date 
and author of the material. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
On appeal, Petitioner's counsel refers to the RFE response, in which he referred to site traffic statistics 
about the www] !website claimed to have been obtained from the website of SimilarWeb Ltd. 
However, assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 
534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter ofRamirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503,506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's 
statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits 
and declarations. Here, the record lacks such evidence. As the Petitioner submitted no other evidence to 
support her claim that the website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media, we agree with the Director's conclusion that she has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been ofmajor significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters from her former employers which generally praised her work, 
but which the Director concluded were insufficient to show that she meets this criterion. In her appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not adequately consider this evidence. We disagree. The 
Director reviewed each of the letters in his decision and explained that none of them showed that the 
Petitioner had made a contribution of major significance to the field of pastry and chocolate 
preparation and cooking. In her brief: the Petitioner points to a letter from her most recent employer 
stating that the newest items on the restaurant's dessert menu are her creations, but she does not explain 
or refer to evidence showing that this contribution to her employer's dessert menu was of major 
significance to her field. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that 
contributions which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). As 
explained by the Director, the other letters similarly describe the Petitioner's work in a positive light, 
but do not suggest that her work remarkably impacted or influenced other pastry chefs. We therefore 
agree with the Director and conclude that this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and thus does 
not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Although she claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to a leading or critical 
role for organizations with a distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(ix), we 
need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.2 Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09. 2023 In Re: 27886143 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner , a mechanical engineering technical specialist , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we 
dismissed because it was filed untimely. Subsequently , the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we 
rejected as improperly filed, and five subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider , which 
we also dismissed . The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
As noted, this matter is before us on a seventh motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner's 
current motion includes a brief that largely reiterates his prior arguments that we erred in our previous 
decisions and that the Director abused the discretion of USCIS by denying his petition. The 
Petitioner's brief conflates some of those decisions and the filing history. For clarity and to provide 
context for the Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we summarize the procedural history 
below. 
July 201 7 The Petitioner filed the petition for consideration under the EB-1 classification. 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he 
would submit a brief and/or additional evidence within 30 days. The record did not 
show that he submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal; the record did not 
show, and the Petitioner did not claim, that he submitted supporting evidence within 
the required 30-day period. Rather, the Petitioner addressed the grounds for denial 
of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in 
filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal because the regulations provide no provision for a petitioner 
to appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider in which 
he sought both to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to 
submit new evidence in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We dismissed the motion to reconsider. However, we granted the Petitioner's 
motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part. We excused the delay in filing 
the January 2019 motion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we 
also determined that the Petitioner had not submitted new facts on motion to 
overcome our summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
2 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. In our 
decision, we also briefly addressed some of the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
in support of his claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act. We explained why this 
evidence did not satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
March 2021 The Petitioner filed a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
July 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our February 2021 decision. 
September 2021 The Petitioner filed a fifth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
He presented a new claim that he had, in fact, filed timely supporting evidence for 
his initial appeal of the Director's decision. 
May 2022 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding, in part, that while the Petitioner 
claimed that he had filed timely supporting evidence, he did not include 
documentation, such as proof of mailing or a copy of a brief: to demonstrate his 
claim. We concluded that the Petitioner he had not shown proper cause for the 
reopening or reconsideration of our July 2021 decision. 
July 2022 The Petitioner filed a sixth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
January 2023 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our May 2022 decision. 
As to the present combined motions, the issues are whether the Petitioner: ( 1) has submitted new facts, 
supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening, and (2) has established that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his sixth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The matters the Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues discussed 
within our most recent decision, which is the decision to dismiss the Petitioner's sixth motion. General 
support that a motion must first overcome the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3), which discusses requirements for reopening and reconsideration that 
include the underlying or latest decision, the time limits in which one may file a motion after the most 
recent decision, as well as jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
As discussed in our previous decisions, which we incorporate here by reference, the Petitioner has 
repeatedly requested that we reopen his appeal and address the merits of his claim that he meets the 
eligibility requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability at section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. In September 2018, the Petitioner filed an appeal that was not accompanied 
3 
by a statement or other evidence identifying the basis for the appeal. Although he indicated on the 
Form I-290B that he would provide a brief and/or additional evidence to our office within 30 days in 
order to meet this requirement, the record reflects that he did not do so. We summarily dismissed the 
appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an 
appeal that does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. As we explained in our prior decisions on motions that subsequently 
followed the appeal dismissal, the only way the Petitioner may succeed on a motion and have his 
appeal reopened is to cure the deficiencies that led to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Absent 
evidence that he submitted a brief or other evidence identifying the basis for his appeal of the 
Director's decision within 30 days of filing his appeal in September 2018, the Petitioner cannot 
establish proper cause to reopen that appeal. 
The Petitioner has previously emphasized and currently reiterates that, in our decision summarily 
dismissing the appeal, we advised him that he could file a motion to reopen and/or reconsider. As 
reflected in the procedural history summarized above, he initially filed an untimely motion in response 
to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Although we initially dismissed the motion as untimely, we 
later reviewed the motion to reopen on its merits after exercising our discretion to excuse the late 
filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). However, as discussed in our July 2020 decision, the motion to 
reopen did not include evidence showing proper cause to reopen the appeal because it did not include 
new facts or evidence to overcome the dismissal ofthe appeal; the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he had filed a brief or other statement in support of the appeal or otherwise show that the summary 
dismissal of the appeal was not warranted. The Petitioner was informed that the purpose of a motion 
following the dismissal of an appeal is to address issues raised in the appellate decision, not to revisit 
the Director's initial adverse decision. 
The Petitioner has filed several motions alleging errors in the Director's decision, and these motions 
were dismissed with the explanation that the Petitioner must first address the contents of the most 
recent decision-in these instances, his successive combined motion dismissals. Our last dismissal, 
issued in January 2023, informed the Petitioner that multiple motion filings serve to thwart the strong 
public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration proceedings where every delay 
works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz 
v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) 
and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). The dismissal explained that USCIS has the latitude 
and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create endless 
delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending to 
repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
The present combined motions reiterate the Petitioner's arguments from previous motions that the 
dismissed appeal should be reopened and that the denial of his petition was in error. As previously 
explained, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's denial decision was 
in the appeal filed in September 2018, and the record reflects that the Petitioner did not avail himself 
of this opportunity by submitting evidence of his arguments within 30 days of filing the appeal. The 
filing of the appeal did not create or preserve any right for the Petitioner to dispute the Director's 
4 
denial in subsequent motions. The combined motions do not include new evidence or describe any 
error involved in the most recent decision from January 2023. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his sixth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our January 
2023 dismissal. The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. 
Rather, the Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope 
of this sixth motion. The Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence sufficient to overcome 
our determination that summary dismissal was the proper and required outcome when presented with 
an appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. The Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Therefore, we will only consider new evidence to the extent that it 
pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the prior motion. Because the Petitioner has not 
established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to reopen our 
prior decision. We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew based on the present motion to reopen and, 
therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). The Petitioner's contentions in the current motion merely reargue facts 
and issues we have already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in 
essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the 
prior Board decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew based on the present motion to 
reconsider and, therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09, 2023 In Re: 28016417 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a social worker, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through his 
receipt ofa major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a social worker who is currently employed by~------------~ 
i~ IAlabama as its Director ofResearch Programs. He earned a master's degree in social 
work from the University of Alabama atl Iin 2020, and has worked as a social 
worker since. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
two evidentiary criteria which the Director evaluated in his decision, those relating to his authorship 
of scholarly articles and a leading or critical role for an organization having a distinguished reputation, 
but does not explain how he believes the Director erred in his decision regarding those criteria. He 
also submits additional evidence in support ofthose two criteria. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In this case, the 
Director stated in his request for evidence (RFE) that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence relating 
to those two criteria, and provided a list of evidence that could be submitted. 
Even if we were to consider this new evidence submitted on appeal, it would not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility under these two criteria. In support ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
the Petitioner submits two manuscripts which list him as an author and are scholarly in nature. 
However, that criterion also requires that those scholarly articles be in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, and the evidence does not show that either of these articles had 
been published at the time the petition was filed. A petitioner must establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit at the time a petition is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) relating to a leading or critical role for an 
organization having a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submits documents relating to the 
2 
formation of0 including its tax-exempt status, as well as information about its history and recent 
accomplishments. However, the Petitioner does not refer to any evidence ofl Irecognition or 
reputation as a social services provider. 
Although we note that the record also includes evidence ofthe Petitioner's membership in an academic 
honor society and his rrognTon as an outstanding graduate student in social work from the College 
of Arts and Sciences at he does not explicitly claim to meet the related criteria on appeal, nor 
did he do so in his initial filing or in response to the Director's RFE. As stated above, it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 
2010). 1 
The Petitioner also refers to the Director's decision regarding the requirement at section 
203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A)(iii), that an individual's entry into the United 
States will be of substantial prospective benefit. However, he does not explain on appeal how the 
record shows that he meets this requirement. In addition, although he asserts that the record shows 
that he has "met all required criteria," this is not one of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As the Petitioner has challenged the Director's decision regarding only two 
of the evidentiary criteria, he cannot meet the requisite three criteria in order to satisfy the initial 
evidence requirement as an individual of extraordinary ability. Accordingly, he has not established 
his eligibility for the requested classification, and we need not conduct a final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the initial evidence requirement by meeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria, and he has therefore not shown his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 We fiuiher note that a review ofthe record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's award is nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), or that an academic honor society is in the 
field for which classification is sought and that membership requires outstanding achievements as judged by national or 
international experts, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2023 In Re: 27032681 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a technology engineer and entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a technology engineer and entrepreneur who has formed several start-up companies 
based on technologies that he has developed and which have garnered large investment sums. He 
intends to continue his work in the United States developing technology related to artificial 
intelligence (AI) and self-driving vehicles. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director detennined that the Petitioner met one of the criteria he claimed to have satisfied: 
published material about the Petitioner and his work in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. 1 The record supports this determination. The Director concluded , however, that 
the Petitioner did not establish that he met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (viii), and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (viii); 
he indicates that USCIS used incorrect judgment in interpreting the evidence of his case. In addition 
to meeting the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we conclude that the Petitioner satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) by demonstrating his original 
contributions ofmajor significance to the field oftechnology . Specifically, endorsement letters, patent 
applications, and articles in the record demonstrate his original contributions of major significance in 
natural language processing technology and AI. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) by showing that he has performed 
both leading and critical roles for companies that have distinguished reputations. Notably, the record 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
2 
contains letters of endorsement and articles demonstrating his leading and critical roles at his 
distinguished technology companies. 
The Petitioner sufficiently demonstrates that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), 
and (viii). Therefore, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits 
determination, discussed below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will conduct a final merits 
determination that considers the entire record in the context of whether or not the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he enjoys a level of expertise indicating that 
he is one of a small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, and that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise . In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if a petitioner's successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(B)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has 
demonstrated his eligibility for this classification. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the field oftechnology­
specifically regarding artificial intelligence and automated vehicles-through his innovative 
approaches to solving issues related to voice recognition and data latency. The letters ofendorsement 
from accomplished figures in the technology sector-as well as media coverage relating to the 
Petitioner's contributions in the field-not only show that his original work at his companies has 
significantly impacted the fields of artificial intelligence and remote vehicle operation; this evidence 
is also indicative of the Petitioner's acclaim in the field nationally. The Petitioner was accepted into 
an entrepreneurial immigration incentive program in Ireland that has rigorous standards for application 
acceptance. Also ofnote is the following evidence ofthe Petitioner's standing in the field, as described 
in a letter from an experienced expert in the technology sector: 
[The Petitioner] was selected to join Forbes Business Council, an extremely selective 
and prestigious organization that consists of respected leaders and executives who are 
selected based on the depth and diversity of their experience in technology, 
management, leadership, customer engagement, and growth. Becoming a part of this 
elite community attests to the fact that [the Petitioner] is a valued expert. Thanks to his 
internationally recognized expertise, he was also invited to Harvard Leaders Excellence 
and Enterprise Island, two other important organizations that allow only the very best 
to join their ranks. 
A significant element in determining the Petitioner's relevancy in the field of technology is the fact 
that venture capital firms have invested tens of millions of dollars into his companies because­
according to letters of endorsement and interviews -they believe the Petitioner has consistently 
demonstrated that he is a visionary who can overcome obstacles to his ventures by creating innovative 
technological solutions. Finally, the fact that the Petitioner performs both leading and critical roles at 
3 
companies receiving considerable venture capital and media attention speaks to his renown in the field 
and the distinguished reputations of those companies. 
The totality of the record, including the Petitioner's original contributions ofmajor significance to the 
field, the impact of his work in the field, the roles he has performed for his companies, and the 
published materials about his work confirm that he enjoys a level of expertise that is consistent with a 
finding that he is one of a small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim, and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field of expertise. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he is eligible for the exclusive classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria! listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized in this field of expertise. Finally, the Petitioner has shown that 
he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. Therefore, the Petitioner has established his eligibility for the 
benefit sought under section 203 of the Act. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2023 In Re: 28048571 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification 
through evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist who has written 
and edited for a women's magazine in her native Nepal 
for several years. She states that she will continue working as a journalist, editor, and media consultant 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets 
nine of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three of the criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Under this criterion, if an individual submits evidence showing that they have received a prize or 
award, they must then establish that the award was given to recognize excellence in the individual's 
field of endeavor, and that the award itself is nationally or internationally recognized in that field. 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of theIaward in 2015, issued by the nongovernmental organization Women A._c_t_,b_u_t_c_o_n_c-lu_d_e_d_t_h-at_. 
the evidence did not show that this award is nationally or internationally recognized. On appeal, the 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles. 
but states on appeal that she is no longer claiming this criterion. Accordingly, we will consider this issue to be waived. 
2 I 
Petitioner takes issue with the Director's statement regarding the lack of evidence of media coverage 
of the award, asserting that he added a novel evidentiary requirement to the plain language of the 
regulation. However, the Director did not indicate that evidence ofmedia coverage was a requirement 
under this criterion, but appropriately used the lack of such evidence in the record as an example of 
how the Petitioner had not established that this award is nationally or internationally recognized in her 
field. 
The Petitioner asserts that a letter from the President of the Nepal Press Union (NPU) sufficiently 
demonstrates this award's national recognition. But we note that this letter, dated July 10, 2022, is nearly 
identical to an initially submitted letter dated January 2, 2019, but signed by a different individual as 
President of the NPU. The ony other difference between these two letters is that while the former refers 
to thel Award" 2015 from Women Actin [sic] 2015," the latter names the award 
asl Ifrom Nepal Press Union in 2015." As a general concept, when a petitioner 
has provided affidavits from different persons that contribute to the eligibility claim, but the language and 
structure contained within the affidavits is notably similar, the trier of fact may treat those similarities as 
a basis for questioning a petitioner's claims. 2 When affidavits contain such similarities, it is reasonable to 
infer that the petitioner who submitted the notably similar documents is the actual source from where the 
suspicious similarities derive. Cf Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. ofJustice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007); 
Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d 587, 592 (6th Cir. 2016). As a result, the probative value of these letters is 
significantly undermined. 
In addition, the descriptions of the justifications and process pertaining to the claimed NPU award in the 
2019 letter do not pertain to the Women Act award. For example, the 2022 letter describes the award as 
being "given each year," but the certificate and the Petitioner's briefboth describe the award from Women 
Act as biennial. Further, the 2022 letter misnames the award given to the Petitioner, which the certificate 
states is the.__ ___________ __..-ward." The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies in 
the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Another letter highlighted on appeal, from an official of Women Act, states that the 2015 award is 
"the highest honor to a woman journalist," and was given to the Petitioner for her "significant 
involvement, contribution, and role of a facilitator throughout the various interaction programs with 
Members of Parliament and other associated stakeholders." However, this statement from the issuing 
organization is not sufficient to show that the award is recognized in the field ofjournalism outside of 
that organization on a broader, national basis. Despite the presence of letters from other individuals 
in the record which mention the Petitioner's receipt of this award, the record lacks contemporaneous 
evidence of national or international recognition in the field. 
The record also includes evidence of other awards received by the Petitioner, including a certificate 
from her employer"--_______ __, In addition, several letters reference the 2015 award from 
the NPU, but we note that they provide different titles for this award, and the record lacks any evidence 
2 See Matter ofR-K-K-. 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland. No. 19-60937, 2021 WL 5984797, at *2 
(5th Cir. Dec. 17. 2021); Surinder Singh v. Board ofImmigration Appeals. 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006); Wang v. 
Lynch. 824 F.3d 587. 592 (6th Cir. 2016); Dehonzai v. Holder. 650 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2011); Hamal v. U.S. Dep't of 
Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, WL 2338316, at *4, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
3 
of a certificate, plaque, trophy, or other indication that she received this award. The record does not 
show that any of these awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and we note that the 
Petitioner does not so assert on appeal. After review of the totality of the evidence relating to prizes 
and awards in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the 
Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ) and the NPU, but concluded that the record did not show that 
either association requires outstanding achievements of its members. On appeal, the Petitioner 
provides an updated page from FNJ's website, indicating that it now has more than 13,000 members, 
and refers to the previously submitted 2014 article from [ lwhich names her as one 
of 22 members elected as central representatives. While she stresses that she is "not an ordinary 
member," she does not elaborate on the requirements or process for election as a central representative, 
nor does she point to evidence that central representatives are required to have outstanding 
achievements. And although the Petitioner reminds that she is also a member of NPU, she does not 
argue that the Director was in error in determining that her membership in this association also does 
not require outstanding achievements. Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the.fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence ofpublished material about them and relating 
to their work in their field. In addition, they must show that the material was published in a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media, and that it includes the required 
identifying information. 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not meet its 
requirements because some of the articles did not identify an author, others were written by the 
Petitioner, and others~ared to be marketing materials.3 On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on 
articles she wrote forl__J magazine, and refers to evidence of the magazine's prominence in the 
Nepali market. However, as noted by the Director, these articles are her work product, and despite 
her claims on appeal, are not about her, as she is mentioned only in the heading as the author or co­
author. While articles need not focus solely on a petitioner in order to be about them, they should 
include a substantial discussion of the petitioner's work in the field and mention them in connection 
3 Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the petitioner's products or promoting their services are not 
generally considered to be published material about the petitioner. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2, Appendices 
tab. 
4 
with that work. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices tab. www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. The articles published inc=]lack such a discussion, and thus do not qualify under this 
criterion. In addition, the articles published in other publications that are about the Petitioner and her 
work lack author information and were not shown to have been published in one of the qualifying 
types of media. As such, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this crierion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that that the evidence of her contributions to ~ and its publisher, 
~-------~are original and ofmajor significance. A letter from the editor ofthe magazine 
states that she has played an important role for several years in "planning stories, strategizing the way 
forward, networking, marketing, and ensuring its commercial success." He also writes that she served 
asl lonline coordinator, pushing management towards digitization. While the Petitioner's efforts 
may have been important to her employer, this evidence does not establish that they were either 
original or remarkably influenced the field ofjournalism. The 2019 letter from the president ofNPU, 
discussed above, states that in leading Nari online, she "set the standard for online presence for other 
media houses as well." But the record lacks documentary evidence showing that she broke new ground 
in the field ofjournalism through her efforts, or that other magazines or publishers implemented their 
own online presence based on a model developed by the Petitioner. For these reasons, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salwy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support ofher claim to this criterion, the Petitioner points to two letters from businesses stating that 
they employed her as a media advisor, one dated 2014 stating that she was paid Rs. 40,000 per month, 
and another from 2016 stating that she was paid Rs. 55,000 per month. She also refers to an October 
7, 2018 article inl Iwhich states that the minimum wage for a journalist is Rs. 
19,500 per month. We first note that the letters do not specify the Petitioner's duties as a media 
advisor, and thus do not demonstrate that a comparison to the salary of a journalist is meaningful to 
show that the Petitioner's salary was high in relation to others in her field. While the record indicates 
that she was employed as a journalist and editor at the time, the record lacks evidence ofthe salary she 
received in this role. 
In addition, even ifthe record did include evidence ofthe Petitioner's salary as a journalist and editor, 
the article provides information about only the minimum salary for a journalist. As the record lacks 
evidence of the full range of salaries paid to both journalists and editors, it is insufficient to 
5 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's salary is high in relation to others performing the same duties. As 
such, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner raises a claim to this criterion for the first time on appeal, and refers to no supporting 
evidence of the type specifically called for in the record. We further note that this criterion applies 
specifically to successes in the performing arts, and the Petitioner's work as a journalist, editor, and 
media consultant is not in the performing arts. She does not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Although she claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her field and her leading or critical role for 
organizations having a distinguished reputation, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2023 In Re: 27693596 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has competed in muay thai, kickboxing, and mixed martial 
arts (MMA) tournaments. He intends to continue to compete as a martial arts athlete in the United 
States. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The INA does not define what constitutes a major, international award, but the Nobel Prize was 
specifically cited as an example in Congressional debates leading to the statute's passage. See H.R. 
Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. 
We note that the selection of Nobel Laureates is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. Other awards which enjoy similar international recognition as top awards for those in a 
particular field include, but are not limited to, the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and Olympic 
medals. 
The Petitioner contends that he won championships at the 2013 I International 
Championship, the 20141 !Championship (Thailand), as well as at the 20141 ID Championship an~ IChampionship, both also in Thailand. As evidence of his receipt 
of these awards, he submitted letters from the founder ofthe Muay Thai Federation of Turkey (TMF), 
his coach, and other martial arts athletes, all ofwhom attest to these victories. However, we note that 
none of these individuals claim to have any standing in or relationship with the organization which 
issued these awards, identified in a newspaper article as the Professional Muay Thai Federation (PMF), 
nor do they explain how they acquired their knowledge of the Petitioner's claimed victories. Further, 
while the Petitioner's coach indicates that he was coaching the Petitioner at the time of these 
competitions, and would presumably have attended them with the Petitioner, he does not provide even 
the smallest detail about the Petitioner's victories or even the events, such as the dates on which they 
occurred. As such, these letters lack sufficient authority, credibility, and detail to establish that the 
Petitioner received the claimed awards. 
2 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs of medals and trophies, but did not provide an explanation 
of any of them or associate them with his claimed awards. As noted by the Director, for all of the 
medals and trophies which included a plaque or engraving, that text was in a foreign language. Any 
document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the text on 
these medals and trophies, we cannot meaningfully determine whether they support his claims. 1 
Although not mentioned by the Director or the Petitioner with regard to his claimed awards, the record 
also includes media articles that report on or make reference to the Petitioner's receipt of the claimed 
awards. While the Director noted a minor discrepancy in the certifications accompanying the English 
translations of these articles, we conclude that they are compliant with the requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). One article, published in Millyet Akdeniz Spar in 20142, states that the 
Petitioner won 10 out of 14 matches atl I~sic] Boxing Stadium "thereby achieving a great 
success," and that he competed at thel and "won the championship belt." Another article, 
published a da] earlier in Akdeniz Mansel Spar, also states that he won the championship belt at the I Both articles feature a photograph of the Petitioner wearing a championship belt. 
Despite the concerns about the evidence noted above, these contemporaneous articles and 
accompanying photographs show by a preponderance of the evidence that the Petitioner won the 2014 I I muay thai tournament. 
However, the record includes very little evidence regarding the I I and its standing as a 
major, internationally recognized award. The letters from other athletes mentioned above, such as I I state that this and the other awards claimed by the Petitioner "are extraordinary and 
the most prestigious events that [the Petitioner] has won," while the founder of the TMF calls them 
"very important awards." These statements, even if supported by documentary evidence, do not 
suggest that thel Iis a major, internationally recognized award, but rather that it marks the 
pinnacle of the Petitioner's career. Even the two newspaper articles mentioned above provide scant 
information about the award. Further, regarding the articles and the publications in which they 
appeared, the record does not show that their mentions of theI I constitute international 
recognition. A letter from a journalist with a different Turkish newspaper states that Millyet "is one 
of the top circulating newspapers in Turkey." However, this statement is not supported by circulation 
statistics, and we note that the name of both newspapers includes "Akdeniz," indicating that they are 
local newspapers or local editions of more widely-distributed publications. 3 In addition, there is no 
indication that the Petitioner's victory came with a substantial monetary prize, gave him significant 
points or standing in any sort of international ranking or title scheme, or was recognized more broadly 
at the international level. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award. We will therefore consider whether he meets at 
least three of the alternative evidentiary criteria. 
jI 1 We note Ithat all but one of the medals and trophies which include a place name show cities in Turkey 
with the exception beingl !(Germany). None refer to cities or places in Thailand. .______ _. 
2 The translations did not include the exact date of the publications. 
3 We take administrative notice that Akdeniz is a municipality within the metropolitan center oti lin Turkey. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any ofthe evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser internationally or nationally recognized 
awards, member of an association requiring outstanding achievements, published material about him 
and his work in his field, and original contributions of major significance to his field. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As stated above regarding the Petitioner's claim to having received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the evidence is sufficient to establish that he received the I laward in 2014, but not 
any of the other awards he specifically claims. And given the lack of supporting documentation 
regarding the stature of thel Iaward, the record is insufficient to show that it qualifies as a 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized award. In addition, while the Petitioner submitted 
evidence of medals and trophies which apparently relate to other martial arts tournaments in which he 
competed, the lack of English translations, as well as any explanations or other supporting evidence 
about these awards, renders this evidence of minimal value. As such, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish their membership in an association in their field, and 
then show that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
~zed experts. Here, the Director determined that the Petitioner is a member ofl I 
L___JTurkey, based upon a letter from the owner, but concluded that this evidence was insufficient 
to show that it required outstanding achievements of its members. The Petitioner does not challenge 
this aspect of the Director's decision on appeal. 
The Director also considered two letters from I I who states that he is the I lof the 
TMF and I I of the European Muaythai Federation (EMF). The letters state that the 
Petitioner is a "prominent member" of the TMF, and that such members must "have national and 
international achievements for very important awards." However, the Director noted that neither of 
these letters included an address for the writer, referring to the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) 
pertaining to "evidence relating to qualifying experience or training," and thus gave them little 
evidentiary weight. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "8 C.F.R. Sec. 204.5 does not apply here" as he is a self­
petitioner, and that the letters are "official government document( s )" such that discrediting them was 
inappropriate. To the extent that the Petitioner argues that the specific requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) regarding evidence of training and work experience is not applicable to letters 
submitted in support ofthis criterion, we acknowledge that the letters were not submitted as evidence 
of training or work experience. However, we note the lack of additional information in the record 
about the TMF andI I which combined with the missing address information lowers the 
evidentiary value of the letters. As for the Petitioner's claim that these are official government 
documents, there is no indication in the record that TMF is a government agency orl Ia 
government official. Having said that, the Petitioner's athlete "license" issued by the Ministry of 
Youth and Sports, which lists TMF as the federation to which he belongs, lends credence to the claim 
that TMF is officially sanctioned by the Turkish government. 
With the above taken into account, we conclude that while this evidence is sufficient to show that the 
Petitioner is a member of TMF, we agree with the Director that it is insufficient to show that the 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members. Notably, I I description of 
the Petitioner as a "prominent member" does not make clear whether this is recognized as a separate 
membership class with unique admission requirements, or is simply a way to describe members who 
have achieved some level of success and recognition as athletes. Also, his statements that prominent 
members must have "national and international achievements" and "have been recognized nationally 
to be outstanding achievers" parrots the language of the regulation without providing substantive 
membership requirements. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 
(S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). Further, despite the Director's request for sections of the association's 
constitution or bylaws which contain the requirements for membership at all levels, the Petitioner did 
not submit such evidence or explain its absence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also suggests that he is a member of the Turkish national muay thai team, 
despite not having previously made this claim. This appears to be based solely onI I 
statement that he "is our National Athlete for the Republic of Turkey." However, this statement is 
insufficient to show that he is a member of a national team, as it makes no reference to a team at all. 
The record also lacks evidence that the Petitioner has competed internationally as a member of a team 
representing the Republic of Turkey. 
For the reasons provided above, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to published material about him and his work as a martial arts athlete and his original contributions of 
major significance to the field of martial arts, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
5 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 17, 2023 In Re: 23091359 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fire prevention specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top ofthe field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Documents in the file indicate that the Petitioner worked for thel IFire BrigadeI I from 1997 to 2014, in such capacities as senior engineer and deputy director ofthe I I 
Fire Prevention Department and as chief of thel IFire Battalion. The Petitioner joined the 
I IFire Protection Association I I in 2015, and was elected as one ofits vice presidents in 
2018. Since 2015, the Petitioner has spent much ofhis time in the United States, first as the J-2 spouse 
ofa J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor, then as the F-2 spouse of an F-1 nonimmigrant student. The 
Petitioner seeks to develop a business involving portable aerosol fire extinguishers. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements ofthree criteria, relating to 
memberships, scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that, although the Petitioner had satisfied three of the initial 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), a final merits determination did not show that the Petitioner had 
earned sustained national or international acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "Fulfillment 
of the three categories is generally sufficient to meet the burden of proving Extraordinary Ability." 
Meeting the initial criteria, however, does not establish a presumption of eligibility. The purpose of 
the final merits determination is to evaluate the quality of the evidence submitted to meet the criteria 
and to determine whether the record, as a whole, supports approval of the petition. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Below, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine iftheir successes are sufficient to demonstrate that 
they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that 
the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner "is revered as an outstanding talent in 
the field of fire prevention; however, he has not established that [his] success from 2010 and 2014 
contribute[s] to a finding ofthe required sustained national or international acclaim." The Director stated: 
According to the petition and supporting documents, the beneficiary entered the field of 
Fire Prevention 13 years ago. . . . The beneficiaiy decided to retire from the fire 
department in July 2014; however planning to join the industry organizatio~ Ian 
international technological and educational organization, at an appropriate time, so as to 
deepen exchanges with peers in the U.S. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision is "lacking in analysis" and "has not 
accurately stated the facts." The Petitioner alleges two specific factual errors. First, the Petitioner disputes 
the assertion that the Petitioner "entered the field of Fire Prevention 13 years ago," stating that he "had 
served at a high level for 20 years in the field." The Director's reference to "13 years" appears to have 
been a biographical detail rather than a specific ground for denying the petition. 
Regarding the other disputed claim, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "stated 'The Beneficiaiy 
decided to retire from the fire department in July 2014' thus sounding as ifhe were fully retired and not 
active in his career. Again, this information is not accurate as Petitioner maintains an active role in the 
Profession at the top tier." But the Director did not state that the Petitioner had completely retired from 
the field of fire safety and prevention. Rather, the Director stated that the Petitioner "retire[ d] from the 
fire department in July 2014," referring to the Petitioner's departure from thel IThe Petitioner's 
own exhibits document this fact. Exhibit 69 of the Petitioner's initial submission, certifying the 
Petitioner's election to the vice presidency of thel lspecifically states that the Beneficiaiy "retired 
from the Service of Fire Prevention in July 2014." The Petitioner resubmits this document on appeal. 
The Director's accurate reference to information in the record does not indicate that the Director erred in 
denying the petition. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has held high-rankin ositions ml !china, mostly in the I I Nevertheless, the record also establishes that th is a municipal entity. Likewise, the 
name of theI Iindicates a connection with the city o ~--~rather than an organization with 
national or international reach. The Petitioner's evidence predominantly focuses on his stature i~.______. 
and the surrounding~-------=====-=-:Region. 
For example, the Petitioner belonged to a I I Safety Production Ex~ert Panel." A published article 
about the panel's formation confirmed that a local authority, "the[ ISecurity 
Committee," convened the panel. Nearly every member of that panel was employed by an entity with 
the word I ~ its name, consistent with a local, municipal venture. Similarly, the 
1 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
Petitioner sat on review panels for projects that took place in._l_____.I and fellow panelists were from 
entities in I I 
The I !bylaws state that an individual must show "major influence in th~ to qualify for 
election as a vice president of the association. A letter from the president of thel__Jstates: "The 
Executive Council of the Association nom1ated [thl Petitioner] ... for the position of Vice President 
based on" such factors as his service on the Safety Production Committee," his involvement in 
"the promulgation ofl jRegulations on Fire Control," and his se1vice on review panels 
which, the record shows, have been convened at the municipal level~ IThe Petitioner's election 
to a leadership position in a municipal association is consistent with local recognition. 
The Petitioner wrote six scholarly articles documented in the record. The Director acknowledged that 
these articles satisfy the wording ofthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but the publication ofthose 
articles does not inherently reflect or result in sustained national or international acclaim. Information 
about the circulation of the journals in which the articles appeared, or the reputations of the publishers, 
does not establish the impact ofindividual articles or the acclaim ofthe authors of those articles. Most of 
the Petitioner's articles appeared in journals with j Iin the title, and the Petitioner has not 
established that the articles attracted wider attention or significantly influenced the field at a national or 
international level. A "goodly number" of citations of a published article are one possible gauge of the 
article's impact. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Here, the Petitioner's 
most-cited article received six citations since its publication in December 2006, more than 13 years before 
the Petitioner filed the petition in April 2020. The Petitioner did not show that this citation rate 
demonstrates a level ofrecognition and influence consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has earned acclaim among fire prevention specialists outside ofI I or that his work in1 Ihas been adopted on a national or international scale. The Petitioner 
submitted examples of "National Standards," but he did not show that he played a role in their 
development. Rather, the Petitioner apparently submitted the "National Standards" to show that some of 
the individuals who developed those standards also served on panels with him. The Petitioner's 
collaboration with such individuals, however, is not evidence of his own wider recognition. The 
Petitioner must show that he has earned sustained national or international acclaim, not that he has worked 
with those who have done so. 
The Petitioner referred to "fire-resistant glasses, which are manufactured according to the standards ... 
formulated by [the Petitioner] and others, have a leading position in the industry." But we can find no 
documentary evidence in the record to establish the Petitioner's role in these standards or the products' 
"leading position in the industry." The ambiguous wording does not specify whether the Petitioner played 
a role in developing the fire-resistant glass itself. 
The Petitioner is named as an inventor on "4 national patents [ in China] for fire protection products." The 
Petitioner submitted a document identifying four patent applications; from the submitted translations, it 
is not clear whether the applications were approved and the patents awarded. The awarding of patents 
does not "demonstrate[] that the [Petitioner] has been at the top of his field." The Petitioner did not 
establish that China awards patents based on the significance of a given invention or innovation, rather 
than its originality. Also, he did not establish that the patented inventions have actually gone into 
commercial production, or that they have had a significant impact on fire prevention in China. 
4 
The Director took evidence of the I I overall reputation into consideration, granting that the 
Petitioner had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). But absent additional evidence, the overall 
reputation of such an organization does not necessarily establish national or international acclaim for 
individual high-ranking officials within that organization. We note that some of the evidence submitted 
to establish thel !reputation relates to events that occurred after the Petitioner left thd lin 
2014, such as patiicipation in an international drill in 2018. 
The Petitioner asserts that, out of about 170,000 "fire prevention troops" in China, only about 800 hold 
national certification as senior engineers. One of the Petitioner's past collaborators asserted that the 
Beneficia1y ranked in the top 100 nationally in the qualifying test for that title. 2 The Petitioner states that, 
as one of that top 100 out of 170,000, he ranks among the small percentage at the very top ofhis field. 
The Petitioner has not shown that there is a valid comparison between the cited figures. For instance, the 
Petitioner has not shown that all 170,000 troops took the certification examination, or that "senior 
engineer" is the highest attainable rank for "fire prevention troops." Evidence showing that only a small 
fraction of "fire prevention troops" are "senior engineers" does not suffice to establish that the title of 
"senior engineer" reflects, or results in, sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his local reputation in._________ _,has expanded into acclaim 
at the national or international level as the statute requires. See section 203 (b)(1 )(A )(i) ofthe Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established significant recognition inl land 
its capital city ofl Ibut he has not shown that the recognition ofhis work has reached the level 
ofsustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career ofacclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The Petitioner also asserted that he was the top scorer inl.____.l but this is a local distinction rather than a national or 
international one as the statute and regulations require. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 18, 2023 In Re: 27203023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oil and gas specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S .C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We dismissed 
a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider . 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I.LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for 
the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new 
evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In order to establish eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification, a petitioner must either 
demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If a 
petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality ofthe evidence to 
determine whether the record shows the individual's sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of their field of endeavor. See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and the, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination). 
The Petitioner does not claim that he has a one-time achievement and seeks to establish that he has 
provided evidence meeting at least three of the ten criteria. The Director found, and our previous 
decision agreed, that the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), for participating as a judge of the work of others in his field and for 
publishing scholarly articles. However, we also affirmed the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
did not meet the other criteria he claimed: 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii) Lead or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations; 
and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies for all three ofthe criteria that we previously denied. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits evidence regarding his wages and professional 
accomplishments. First, we note that much ofthe evidence submitted on motion came into being after 
the petition filing date of May 2020. Petitioners must establish eligibility as of the time of filing. 
8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Therefore, while speaking invitations and other evidence that postdate the 
filing of the petition can establish a petitioner's continuing national or international acclaim, they 
cannot establish initial eligibility. Id.; see Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (BIA 1971) (stating 
that properly denied visa petitions cannot be subsequently approved at a future date when a noncitizen 
may become qualified under a new set of facts). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), significant contribution to the field, the Petitioner 
submits various publication and speaking offers, as well as statistics regarding his academic 
publications. This new evidence postdates the filing of the petition and therefore cannot establish the 
level of significance the Petitioner's contributions had reached as of the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). As such, the new facts provided do not demonstrate that as of the time of filing, the 
Petitioner had made original contributions to his field, or that those contributions were of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner did not submit new evidence regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(viii), lead 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations, and therefore has 
not overcome our prior conclusion that he did not qualify under this criterion. 
2 
The Petitioner previously sought to establish his eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) by comparing his wages to those of construction managers. In our prior decision, 
we noted that the petition did not establish that the Petitioner's duties were comparable to those of 
construction managers. We farther noted that the available information appeared to indicate that the 
Petitioner was employed as an engineer in the oil and gas industry, and that he had not submitted 
evidence showing that his salary or other remuneration were high in relation to others in that field. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he also earns a significantly high salary in relation to other 
engineers in the oil and gas industry, and submits wage data from the Bureau ofLabor Statistics (BLS) 
for various engineering occupations to support this claim. 1 The Petitioner earned $161,440 in 2018 
and $180,165 in 2019. The latter wage is higher than the 90th percentile wage in Texas for all of the 
engineering disciplines provided by the Petitioner, which the Petitioner contends qualifies him for this 
criterion. However, despite the Petitioner's claims, the same is not true when specifically comparing 
the Petitioner's wage to 2019 Texas wages in the oil and gas industry.2 
The 90th percentile wage for Texas construction managers in the Petitioner's industry in 2019 was 
$206,860. For mechanical engineers in the same location and industry, the 90th percentile wage was 
$196,910. The 90th percentile wages for civil engineers and electrical engineers were not recorded 
because they were higher than $208,000 a year. While the Petitioner has not clarified which of these 
occupations or combination of occupations aligns with his work, the record indicates that his wages 
have been below the 90th percentile when compared to those ofsimilar workers regardless. We farther 
note that the Petitioner has described his work as managerial and involving the oversight of other 
engineers, and the mean wage for Texas architectural and engineering managers in the oil and gas 
industry in 2019 was $214,230, which is significantly higher than the Petitioner's wage at the time. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner asserts that earning a wage above the 90th percentile for his field 
qualifies him for this criterion, the record does not establish that he meets this standard or that his 
salary was high enough to be notable within his field. 
Finally, while we acknowledge the Petitioner's job offer for a position paying $100 an hour, or 
$208,000 for a year of foll-time work, this offer is dated October 2022, which is over two years after 
the underlying petition was filed. Therefore, the job offer cannot establish the Petitioner's initial 
eligibility in this case. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The new evidence provided by the Petitioner does not 
establish that he has received a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in comparison 
with others in his field, and so he does not qualify under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has not submitted new facts which establish his eligibility for the benefit sought. 
Therefore, he has not met the requirements of a motion to reopen, and the motion will be dismissed. 
1 The motion includes national and Texas wage data pertaining to civil engineers; mechanical engineers; mining and 
geological engineers; marine engineers and naval architects; energy engineers, except wind and solar; and electrical 
engineers. Notably, despite the Petitioner's employment on natural gas projects, it does not include data for petroleum 
engineers. Additionally, as it is not apparent that the Petitioner was employed as a mining, marine, or energy engineer in 
2018 or 2019, we will not analyze the wage figures for those occupations. 
2 Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dep't of Labor, Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics Research Estimates, 
https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_research_estimates.htm (follow hyperlink for "Sectors 21, 22, & 23: Mining, 
Utilities, and Construction" under "May 2019" to download the data in .xlsx format). 
3 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner contests the conclusions of our prior decision. 3 The Petitioner 
states that he submitted the types ofdocumentation listed in the Director's request for evidence (RFE), 
and that this should be sufficient to establish his eligibility.4 However, the Petitioner does not identify 
a law or policy that we incorrectly applied in our last decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)3). 
Furthermore, much of the evidence provided in response to the RFE and on appeal did not come into 
existence until after the etition was filed and thus cannot demonstrate eli ibility. For example, the 
Petitioner's book,~-----------------------~ was registered for a 
copyright in June 2020, indicating it was published at this time. The five Amazon reviews of the book 
are from March and April 2021, and the various other forms of recognition the book received also 
came after the time of filing the petition. The Petitioner cannot establish that as of May 2020, the time 
of filing, his book had had a significant impact on the field as per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), because 
the book was not yet published at that time. 
Secondly, the evidence does not establish that any of the Petitioner's contributions have had a major 
impact on his field. For example, the Academia.edu readership analytics of the Petitioner's scholarly 
publications do not provide sufficient information to establish whether these publications have 
influenced subsequent work in the field. Statistics such as the Petitioner being in the "Top 3.1 % by 
Views" in a 12-month period do not indicate who he is being compared with, and appear to be derived 
from viewership within narrow research areas such as "Gas Pipelines" and "Hot Corrosion." The 
significance of this data is therefore not apparent. Furthermore, these statistics do not establish how 
often the Petitioner has been cited by others, which is a more reliable indicator of influence on the 
field than simple readership. 5•6 The various speaking and publication invitations in the record also do 
not indicate that they were issued due to a specific impact the Petitioner's work had on his field. 
The support letters provided do not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work has had such a deep or 
widespread impact as to be considered major in the field of oil and gas construction engineering. For 
example, the letter from K-V-, an engineer atl Istates that two of the Petitioner's articles 
were used "as reference material/input for preparation of pipe support and Human Factors technical 
specifications to be used during the engineering phase" of an unspecified project, but does not state to 
what extent that input influenced the project. Various other letters, such as those from his former 
coworkers P-P-and S-G, indicate that the Petitioner has helped the profitability of his employers and 
speak highly of his abilities, but do not specify how his work was original or how it has impacted the 
field of oil and gas construction engineering as a whole. 
3 The Petitioner also repeats his prior appeal's contention that the Director overlooked evidence in the original denial. 
However, our review on motion is limited to our prior decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(ii). 
4 Evidence must be examined for relevance, probative value, and credibility in determining whether a petitioner's claim is 
probably true. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 376. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step ofReviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual ("[E]ntries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor."). 
6 We further note that these statistics encompass a time span from October 2019 to April 2021, much of which falls after 
the petition filing date. 
4 
The record does not establish that the "philosophy document" the Petitioner wrote for the Petroleum 
Exploration and Production Association ofNew Zealand is original or show that its use has impacted 
others. The documentation regarding the Tribology Excellence A ward from the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers does not state the criteria for the award beyond "showcasing an excellent 
professional case study" that was used by the Petitioner's employer to "improve efficiency and output" 
from a production facility. It is therefore not apparent that this award is for original work or that it 
reflects any impact beyond that employer. The evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made an original contribution to his field which has had a major impact on that field as a whole, and 
so he does not qualify for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii , the Petitioner · ht to establish his 
eli ibilit based on leadin or critical roles for and 
L...-----------------1---'-O~u;;;....r =ri;....co.;;;..r....cd'"""'"e-'-c=is"'"io=n=fo.;;_u'-'-'ind that the Wikipedia articles provided 
were insufficient to establish that.___________ __, are organizations with distinguished 
reputations in the field. On motion, the Petitioner states that he "would not much stress ...I II I as it is a company based in India and is very reputed there, but it does not mean 
that people in the United States would know about the organization and it being distinguished ..." 
He goes on to state that 1 1-. needs no evidence to be considered a distinguished one" 
because of its long history and its operations during World War II. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013) (citing Matter of 
Brantigan, 11 I&N Dec. 493, 495 (BIA 1966)). Stating tha~ !history gives it such a 
distinguished reputation that it requires no evidence does not meet the Petitioner's burden in this case. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First 
Step of Reviewing Evidence ("The relative size and longevity of an organization or establishment is 
not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information to determine 
whether a distinguished reputation exists."). The Petitioner has declined to provide any reason our 
decision was incorrect regardingI I reputation, except to state that its reputation is more 
known in India than in the United States. This assertion does not establish that our decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3).7 
The Petitioner does not assert our prior decision applied a law or policy incorrectly regarding the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy at the time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
7 We acknowledge the Petitioner's contention that his hiring for the.__ _____ __,qualifies him for this criterion. 
However, as noted above. eligibility must be established as of the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Since the 
Petitioner was hired for this position well after filing, we decline to consider it when determining his initial eligibility. Id. 
5 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2023 In Re: 27693225 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician , seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the sciences. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria required for eligibility . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner, a gastroenterologist specializing in pancreatology, seeks to continue this work in the 
United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time achievement, he must submit evidence 
meeting at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner only submitted evidence establishing eligibility for two criteria: 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), commanding a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence for the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published material about the petitioner in professional or major trade 
publications, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, the Director denied 
the petition. 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to grant the petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and allow an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786, 777-78 (BIA 1994). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the denial notice in this case does not address his evidence and appears to have 
confused his record with that of another petitioner. Upon review, for the reasons discussed below, we 
find that the Director's decision did not adequately address all of the claimed evidentiary criteria or 
analyze the evidence provided, and so did not folly explain the reasons the petition was denied. 
First, the denial's analysis of the original contributions criterion1 misstates the Petitioner's medical 
specialty and states a list of the Petitioner's exhibits that does not correspond to the documents that 
were actually provided. While the Director does analyze the Petitioner's evidence at other points, this 
portion of the decision appears to reflect the contents of a different record of proceeding. 
Second, the denial overlooks some evidence that the Petitioner did provide. For example, the decision 
letter states that the Petitioner did not provide "documentation comparing the citation records of the 
petitioner and similarly situated researchers in the field ..." In fact, the Petitioner provided a study 
of publication statistics in the field of acute pancreatitis research from 1999 to 2018. This article 
1 The section of the denial addressing the published material criterion did not contain deficiencies necessitating a remand. 
While it did not analyze the provided article regarding the Petitioner's receipt ofan award for his volunteer medical service, 
the article was not accompanied by information about its author or where it was published, as required by regulation, and 
so cannot establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
indicates, among other things, the mean impact factor and number of citations per article, thus 
providing a basis of comparison for evaluating the Petitioner's publication history. 
Finally, while the Director states that the Petitioner failed to provide "extensive documentation" in 
support of the original contributions criterion, this requirement comes from the statutory definition of 
extraordinary ability at section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act, and a petitioner's fulfillment ofthis definition 
is only assessed after it has been determined that they meet the initial evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3). Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. This standard should not be applied to 
individual criteria. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Because the Director's decision did not adequately address the evidence of record, we will remand 
this matter. On remand, the Director should determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain 
language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and issue a new decision. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, they 
were not required to conduct a final merits determination ofwhether the Petitioner has established that 
he possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the 
new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and whether the record demonstrates that his achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise through extensive documentation, indicating that he is one ofthat small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
The Director may request any evidence considered relevant to the new decision. We express no 
opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2023 In Re: 27422937 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(1 )(A). This first preference 
(EB-1) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who has displayed her work and offers art instruction to beginners via her 
social media account. She intends to continue working as an artist through creating and marketing her 
own artistic work, and by conducting art classes to children between the age of four and fifteen. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria 
relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards (i), membership (ii), and original 
contributions (v). She does not assert eligibility under the judging (iv), authorship (vi), leading or 
critical role (viii), high salary (ix), or commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues 
to be waived and will not address these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language ofthe regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the Petitioner 
is the recipient of prizes or awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and 
that each prize or award is one for excellence in the field ofendeavor. See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2 appendix, https://www .uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 ( noting relevant 
1 While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, include, but are not limited to, 
the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes 
or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on 
competitors). 
As evidence of her lesser national or international awards, the Petitioner submitted certificates from 
an art promotion organization,! I[L-], regarding artwork that she had submitted to L­
as paid entries in its art competitions. According to the internet material submitted by the Petitioner 
about L-, its mission is to "help[] today's artists to market their art." L-offers art competitions on a 
monthly basis to "amateur and professional artists" who may submit digitized entries oftheir work on 
a sliding fee basis -"$14 for 1 to 2 entries and $24 for 3 to 5 entries." There is no limit to the number 
of entries an artist may submit as long as the fees are paid. However, the pool of entries submitted 
for L-'s consideration is limited by how many entries the contestants are willing to pay for. 
L-'s internet material indicates "[t]he top winning artists for each exhibition will be promoted and 
circulated to over 550+ major News Outlets, Premium Fox, CBS, NBS, Affiliate Sites, Guaranteed 
inclusion on Google News & Bing News and Social Media Inclusion." L-notes "the winning images 
will be seen by an international audience of gallery directors, art collectors and art consultants .... the 
winning entries will be featured on [L-' s online gallery] for one month and then remain in [L-'s] 
archive gallery for five (5) years. By having their work on the [L-] website, winning artists should 
increase exposure to their work, enhance their resume and create an increased number ofbacklinks to 
their own website." 
In the request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that she had not demonstrated 
that the claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized and requested additional 
documentary evidence in support of her eligibility under this criterion. The Director stated that such 
evidence should demonstrate the criteria used to grant the awards, their significance (including the 
national or international recognition associated with the awards), the reputation ofthe organization or 
panel granting the awards, the geographic scope ofthe awards and any limitations on competitors, the 
number of awards or prizes granted, evidence related to previous award winners, and public 
announcements of the awards. 
In response, the Petitioner stated that her "special merit" and "special recognition" awards from L-, 
along with the submitted information about L-"are sufficient to establish that her awards are 
recognized both nationally and internationally." The Director denied the petition, in part, concluding 
that the evidence submitted was insufficient to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to her "special merit" award from L-for her entry entitled 1~---~ 
among other L-awards, noting that in this competition "over 1,000 contestants from over 30 countries 
in the world competed." She states that she "submitted multiple awards she received in [L-'s] 
competitions ... [which] clearly satisfies the requirements that the prize or award be recognized 
nationally or internationally and that the award or prize is for excellence in the field of endeavor." We 
disagree. 
L-'s internet materials indicate that it receives digitized art entries from amateur and professional 
artists living in various countries for consideration in its monthly fee-based competitions. While the 
3 
pool of competitors willing to pay for the entry of their digitized artwork stems from international 
locations, this fact alone does not substantiate the Petitioner's claim that the awards given to the 
winners of L-' s competitions are internationally or even nationally recognized awards for excellence 
in the field of endeavor. 
For instance, the evidence does not sufficiently describe the evaluative criteria used by L-in selecting 
the winning entries in its competition. If an artist's entry is selected as a "winner," the artist is eligible 
to have their artwork digitally promoted by L-to various media outlets and the artwork will also appear 
in L-'s own web gallery. Here, the evidence suggests that L-is engaged in marketing artwork for 
artists via its website and fee-based competitions, not offering nationally or internationally recognized 
art competitions which grant prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. We conclude 
that this evidence is of little probative value to the issue at hand. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 
at 369. The Petitioner has not met her burden in demonstrating that the certificates she earned through 
L-' s art competitions meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Therefore, this criterion 
has not been met. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner previously filed another petition seeking the EB-1 extraordinary 
ability classification, which was denied in March 2020. The Petitioner contends on appeal that since 
the Director determined that she met this criterion in her first denied petition, the Director erred in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion when denying the instant petition. USCIS is not required 
to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of 
prior affirmative determinations which may have been erroneous. See Matter ofChurch Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Furthermore, we are not bound to follow a contradictory decision of a 
service center. La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 
2000), affd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an 
academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
The Petitioner initially asserted that she met this criterion based on membership in three organizations, 
thel Isociety, Portrait Society of America, and the Pastel Society of America [PSA]. The 
Director determined that the initial evidence did not provide sufficient evidence about the Petitioner's 
membership in these organizations or their membership requirements to establish that this criterion 
had been met. In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not 
establish that she is a member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding 
4 
achievements in the field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. He requested additional evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective 
members' applications are recognized as national or international experts; the sections of the 
associations' bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership; and the sections of the bylaws 
discussing the qualifications required of those who review membership applications. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner narrowed her focus to just one organization, PSA, 
and submitted PSA's bylaws and a letter from its president [Mr. W-]. The Director reviewed the 
response, and then denied the petition, in part, concluding the Petitioner did not show that PSA 
members are required to have outstanding achievements to gain membership. He farther noted that 
Mr. W-'s letter expressed that PSA's members have a level of expertise in the field, but that his 
statements did not indicate that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that while PSA's bylaws "do not specifically state that members are 
required to have outstanding achievements they do make clear that admission of a member occurs only 
after evaluation of the applicant's artwork by a jury of at least three signature members." We have 
carefully reviewed the bylaws and other submitted evidence about PSA, and conclude that contrary to 
the Petitioner's general assertions about PSA's membership requirements, the bylaws provide four 
levels of membership within the organization, as follows: 
• Signature Member -shall be a person who (1) is engaged in the creation of pastel 
paintings and (2) has met the professional and other admission requirements. . . 
Admission of Full Member: Upon receipt of a membership application and the 
prescribed fees, a pastelist will have his or her submitted works evaluated by a jury of 
not less than three (3) Signature Members... The Jury will determine whether the 
works meet the established professional standards of the Society. 
• Associate Member -shall be a person who (1) is engaged in the creation of pastel 
paintings judged by the Society to meet the basic principles of the pastel field, (2) 
exhibits the potential ofmeeting the professional standards of a Signature Member and 
(3) meets such other prescribed admission requirements of an Associate Member as 
the Board may from time to time establish. 
• Honorary Member: A person, pastelist or non-pastelist, who has rendered either 
outstanding or distinguished services to the pastel field and/or other segments ofthe art 
world may be granted an Honorary Membership, provided that such person is not 
currently a Signature Member or an Associate Member of the Society. 
• Supporting Member -shall be any person who contributes financially to the Society 
and meets other criteria [i]ncluding but not limited to the payment of dues. 
The record contains the Petitioner's PSA membership certificate which reflects that she was 'juried" 
as an associate member in October 2019. Based on the descriptions provided above, an associate 
member of PSA meets the "basic principles of the pastel field," but is the next lowest level of 
membership immediately above that of a supporting member who simply gains membership by 
financially contributing to the organization. While the Petitioner's certificate indicates that she is a 
'juried" PSA member, PSA's membership requirements in its bylaws do not suggest that associate 
members must have "outstanding achievements" in order to gain this level of membership. Rather, it 
appears that honorary membership is PSA's only membership category which requires "outstanding 
5 
or distinguished services to the pastel field and/or other segments of the art world," and notably the 
bylaws also indicate that honorary memberships are not available to associate members, such as the 
Petitioner. 
In summary, while it appears that PSA may offer a level of membership in its Society that requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, the record does not show that this is the category of 
membership that the Petitioner holds. For the sake of brevity, we will not discuss other deficiencies 
in the evidence regarding whether the Petitioner's PSA membership meets the plain language of this 
criterion. This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level ofmajor significance. 
The Petitioner did not initially identify a specific original artistic contribution that she has made. In her 
RFE response, she pointed to her Y ouTube channel "that teaches viewers around the world how to create 
step-by-step drawings, mostly in the pastel and pencil art mediums." She asserted that as her channel 
"has just under 100,000 subscribers, and in the cumulative, her videos have been viewed over 18 million 
times, [it] is an original artistic contribution of major significance further demonstrating that she is an 
artist of extraordinary ability who has attained both national and international acclaim in her field." She 
provided copies of her channel's internet pages showing a listing of the instructional videos that she 
posted in her channel with statistics regarding the number of shares, likes, and views that each video had 
garnered, as well as the total number of hours that viewers spent watching her videos as of October 2022 
(when she made the screenshots of her channel). The Director ultimately determined that while the 
Petitioner has developed a moderate viewership on A-, her art instruction contributions through this 
activity had not significantly impacted the field of art. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight to "her channel's 
subscriptions and view numbers [which] unequivocally demonstrates that millions of viewers have 
benefited from her art lessons." However, we agree with the Director that without more, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the "views" of her videos on You Tube translate to a showing that she meets 
the plain language requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner presented Y ouTube screenshots from 
October 2022 indicating that the number of subscribers to her channel at that time was 98,228, but this 
subscription information substantially post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be 
demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Without more, the metrics for these 
videos do not support the Petitioner's assertion that she had made contributions of major significance at 
the time the petition was filed in February 2021. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that the availability of her videos on 
Y ouTube and subscribership to her channel signify original contributions of major significance in the 
field. As discussed, to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has not only made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the arts. Major significance in 
6 
the field may be shown through evidence that her original art instruction methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
objective, independent documentary evidence to show that her YouTube channel videos are of major 
significance in her field of endeavor. Chawathe, supra. 
For example, although the Petitioner provided screenshots from YouTube of her work, she did not offer 
evidence that her presence on Y ouTube resulted in the adoption of her art instruction methods by others 
involved in similar pursuits in the field, or otherwise engendered substantial interest from others with 
expertise within the field of endeavor. While the record indicates that the Petitioner has achieved a 
level of popularity in the art instruction industry through her Y ouTube channel, she has not 
demonstrated that her original work rises to the level of artistic or even business-related contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The record, including the Y ouTube screenshots, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's 
original work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen 
to the level of original contributions of major significance. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she meets this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a determination 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a dedicated artist who devotes part of her time to providing art instruction 
to beginners. But she has not shown that her artistic achievements have been recognized at the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that her work to date is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2023 In Re: 28060386 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film director and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification 
through evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten 
alternative evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television and film director and producer. She holds a master of science degree in 
cinematography and television production from the .-I------,I University of Culture and Arts L I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles in her field, and we 
agree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets five additional evidentiary criteria. 1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that she does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification and is not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish their receipt a prize or award, and that the 
prize or award was given for excellence in their field. In addition, it must be shown that the prize or 
award is nationally or internationally recognized in their field. 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that she does not meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 
I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
So we will not consider whether she meets that criterion in this decision. 
2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to several awards for films or programs. The Director 
I determined that Ishe received a 2007 Teletriumph award in the category 
from the Television Industry Committee (TIC) of Ukrai.._n_e_f_o_r_th_e_t_e_le-v-is_i_on_p_ro_g_r_a_m_.
I Ibut that the evidence does not establish that it is nationally or internationally 
recognized. However, we disagree in both respects. The evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
Teletriumph awards are Ukraine's only television awards and are presented jointly by TIC, a 
professional association in the television industry, and the national government body with oversight 
of the television industry. As such, they are nationally recognized in the Petitioner's field. 
However, the evidence does not demonstrate by a preponderance that the Petitioner received the 
referenced 
Teletriumph award. The evidence relating to this award includes a page from TIC's 
website, fhotographs of the award trophy and the Petitioner holding it, and a letter froml II _ a filmmaker from Kazakhstan. The website states that the recipient was '"New Channel," 
and does not mention the Petitioner. And although a caption to the photograph of the Petitioner 
holding the trophy indicates that she received it, this assertion is not supported in the record. While a 
letter from director of the Petitioner's former employer '--------~ 
'-----...----~_in~U~kr_a_in_e-; states that she worked as the director of "the awarding concert-
ceremony._________ _." his statement that she andD received the Teletriumph award for 
this work directly contradicts the evidence from the awarding entity's website. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director did not properly consider the awards received 
by several films in which she states she was involved. These include I IAs noted by the Director, the evidence do._e_s_n_o_t s_,h_o_w-th_a_t-th_e_P-et-it-io_n_e~r 
received an award for her involvement in the making of these movies. While the Petitioner argues 
that directors and producers play an integral part in the success of films, it is the awarding entities who 
decide which individuals or groups to recognize. Further, the section of the Petitioner's response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE) that she refers to on appeal includes several webpages and 
articles about both of these movies, including listings of the individuals who had important roles in 
their production, but none of this material mentions the Petitioner. 
Regarding two additional awards claimed by the Petitioner, these are evidenced by a certificate and 
badge given to the Petitioner by a committee called "Revolution Guard" for "outstanding contribution 
to the liberation ofUkraine" and a photograph ofa medal or pin from the Professional Football League 
with the notation" l OYears." On appeal, the Petitioner refers only tol Iletter for support 
that the certificate and badge from the "Revolution Guard" committee were given to her for excellence 
in the field offilmmaking, and as with the Teletriumph award, he does not claim to have been involved 
with the awarding entity or the project for which the Petitioner asserts she received this award. As for 
the Professional Football League award, the Petitioner asserts that since she produced work regarding 
or for the Professional Football League, the pin must have been given to her in recognition of that 
work. Beyond a statement from her former employer that she served as a director for an award 
ceremony held by the league, there is no further evidence in the record regarding this medal or pin. In 
addition, we agree with the Director that the record is insufficient to show why the Petitioner received 
either of these awards, and add that it is also insufficient to show that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
For all of the reasons given above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but also that the contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner asserts that she has made three original contributions to the field ofmovie and television 
production and direction. The first is a "vanishing effect" she states that she created for a concert 
movie for the band I I in 2008. In his letter, singer and musician I I 
describes a "unique technical solution" employed by the Petitioner in creating this concert movie 
which made the performer disappear and reappear elsewhere on the stage. Whilel ldoes 
not claim to possess technical expertise in lighting, cinematography, production, or direction of 
movies, he states that he has worked with many creative producers and directors over the course of his 
career, and that he had not observed other directors "achieve anything which would be even close to 
what she did." He goes on to state that other bands and directors thereafter used this technical solution, 
but he does not provide any specifics. 
Another letter which addresses this claimed original contribution was written byl I a 
photographer. She writes that this effect was invented by the Petitioner and was "trnly innovative," 
and names two other video directors who subsequently "borrowed" it from the Petitioner for use in 
their own works. Also,I lstates in his letter that the Petitioner was the director for the 
television version ofthe I I show and edited the concert film, but he does not mention the 
Petitioner's use of the effect discussed in the other two letters. 
While this evidence, particularly! I letter, shows by a preponderance that the Petitioner 
worked as a director for thel !concert movie, it does not establish that she invented the 
"vanishing effect" used in the movie as she claims. Notably, the two writers who make this assertion 
were not involved with the concert or its filming in any respect, and thus have no first-hand knowledge 
of the details of its production and direction. More importantly, their claims that this effect was the 
Petitioner's innovation is not supported by documentary evidence, which given the writer's lack of 
first-hand knowledge or technical expertise, and thus the credibility of these letters, is particularly 
needed. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, we may give the document 
more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has 
held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of 
S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not 
only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, 
where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater 
need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 
1998). As the record lacks such evidence, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown 
that her use of the "vanishing effect" was an original contribution to the field of film production and 
direction, or that it was of major significance. 
4 
Another original contribution claimed by the Petitioner is her book I IThe translated excerpts showing ....th_e_t-it-le-p-ag_e_a_n_d_1 __n-tr_o_d_u-ct-io-n-to_. 
the book are sufficient to establish that the Petitioner authored the book, and that it is a scholarly study 
of Ukrainian films made during the period referenced in the title. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
new evidence consisting of a statement fromI I that this book "is included in the mandatory 
program of students at the faculty of cinema and television from 09.01.2017." Because she was put 
on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not consider it for the 
first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted 
together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 T&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) ( declining to consider 
new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence 
and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). However, even if 
we were to consider this statement, it is not sufficient to show that the book has been widely 
implemented or had remarkable influence in the field of filmmaking. 
The Petitioner also refers to an article from the website of Woman magazine which discusses her book 
and includes a picture of her holding the book. We first note that this article includes neither the date 
on which it was published or posted or the name of the author who wrote it, thus lowering its 
evidentiary value. Further, the submitted content of the article, which indicates that the book is 
intended for professionals in the movie industry and is original since it fills a gap in literature about 
this period of filmmaking in Ukraine, does not suggest that it has already been influential in the field 
offilmmaking. Similarly, a letter froml lwho states that he is a journalist, producer, and 
radio and television host, describes the book in detail and comments upon its originality, but then 
arrives at the conclusion that it is "an original contribution of major significance to the field of 
filmmaking" without support in the record. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does 
not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof, as specifics are an important indication of whether the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Finally, based solely upon a letter from I I the Petitioner asserts that her teaching of a course 
on animation directing at the school is an original contribution of major significance to her field. As 
the record lacks evidence of the originality and significance of this eight-month course, this assertion 
is unfounded. 
Based on the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
This criterion requires a Petitioner to establish that their work has been displayed, and that the display 
took place in artistic exhibitions or showcases. In her decision, the Director noted that the evidence 
submitted about the films ~-----------------------~did not 
show that she was listed in the credits for these movies, and thus that the display ofthese works at film 
festivals was not the display of her work. On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges the Director's 
conclusion, but states only that a cinematography professional's work is displayed at film festivals, 
and that the evidence previously submitted showed that works produced by her were displayed at film 
5 
festivals. This evidence includes screen prints from websites including imdb.com and Wikipedia.com, 
some of which list the cast and crew. The Petitioner's name is not listed in this evidence. 
The evidence of record also includes the letter from ....l ____ ___.I which the Petitioner asserts on 
appeal "provides detailed information regarding [the Petitioner's] work as a creative producer and her 
films which were displayed at a number of international movie festivals." As previously stated,DI ldoes not indicate that he was involved with the making of these films, so his accounts ofthe 
Petitioner's activities and roles are not based upon first-hand knowledge or observation of that work 
and are thus oflittle evidentiary value. In addition, despite the assertion that his letter provides detailed 
information regarding her work on these films, it simply lists a job title for each film. Even if the 
materials above showed that the Petitioner was credited for work in these films, the record lacks 
sufficiently detailed evidence showing that it was her work that was displayed at film festivals. 
Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they played either a leading or critical 
role for an organization or establishment, or a department or division thereof, and that that 
organization, establishment, department, or division has or had a distinguished reputation. For a 
leading role, a title and appropriate matching duties may help to show that a role is or was leading. In 
the case of a critical role, the evidence should show that the individual contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of an individual's role that makes it critical, but the individual's performance in that role. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices tab, www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that she played a critical role for both I I Regarding her 
role atl !neither of the materials she references demonstrates that her role as the creator and 
instructor of a class on animation directing was critical for the universit . The first, signed bye::]I I confirms that she created and directed the course and tha was leased with her 
performance in this role. The second letter is from director and producer~____ ___. a director 
and producer who states that he is a graduate ofl land opines that the course taught by the 
Petitioner "played a critical role in the curriculum of the University." He also lists several reasons 
why he believes that the Petitioner's role was critical to the university, including that it allowed the 
university to expand its student base. However,~ ~ does not explain the source of this 
information, as he does not claim to be employed~ ....,..._-_-_-_-_-......or have any relationship with it other 
than as a graduate, and he does not claim to have observed the Petitioner's class or its impact on the 
university. While letters from those with personal knowledge of a petitioner's leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment are particularly helpful in demonstrating qualification for this 
criterion, letters from those with no personal knowledge are not. Id. 
._______ __, letter about the Petitioner's role forDstates that she was employed by the 
company as a director and creative producer since 2004. We first note that despite this statement, the 
letter is unclear about the dates of her employment. The letter goes on to state that the Petitioner 
worked on multiple productions for the company between 2005 and 2007, and then goes on to describe 
projects she completed with various other channels and companies between 2005 and 2008, and then 
6 
I between 2012 and 2014. I kioes not indicate whether the Petitioner remained employed 
withc=]while working on there projects, nor does he explain the gap between 2008 and 2012 or if 
or when she ceased working for 
Idescribes several projects on which the Petitioner worked, and states that her role for 
LJwas critical because she led the company's "most complex a[nd] prestigious projects, all ofwhich 
resulted in the highest ratings of our broadcasts. However, he does not provide any ratings data to 
support this assertion, whether for these projects or for the company overall. He also credits the 
Petitioner with directing thel broject, but his claims that this resulted in her and 
Dreceiving the Teletriumph award are not supported in the evidence, as discussed above concerning 
the lesser awards criterion. In addition, he cites the Petitioner's use of an overhead camera on rails as 
innovative and an example of her technical solutions which were "quite ahead of their time," but does 
not refer to evidence supporting this statement or explain how her use of this technique was critical to 
LJbusiness. As such, this letter is insufficient to show that her role was critical toD 
The Petitioner also relies uponl !statements in attempting to establish thatOhas a 
distinguished reputation, but a reputation is a reflection of the views and opinions ofothers in a certain 
field. For this reason,I I assertions alone are insufficient, and they are not supported 
by evidence that others in the filmmaking industry consider the company as marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. Id. Further, while he claims thaO is the largest television and media 
production company in Eastern Europe, this is also not supported with documentary evidence, and the 
size of an organization is not determinative when considering its reputation. Id. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although she claims to meet an additional 
evidentiary criterion relating to published material about her and her work, because she has met only 
one of the other criteria she claims, she cannot meet the requisite three criterion needed to satisfy the 
initial evidence requirement for this classification. Accordingly, we need not reach, and therefore 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). Although we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, we have 
nevertheless reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
7 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2023 In Re: 28284448 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirements for this classification based on his receipt of a 
major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal on 
the same grounds, and then dismissed the Petitioner's previous combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .5( a)(3 ). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
1 The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top 
ofthe field ofendeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi­
part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , the petitioner 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality 
of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter o_fCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 
464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
In support of the motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits additional documentation related to the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner has 
commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in his field. The new evidence provided with the motion consists ofa U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) approval notice indicating that the Petitioner is the beneficiary of an H-lB 
nonimmigrant petition authorizing his employment with a private U.S. university from February 2023 
through February 2026, along with copies of his pay statements from the university indicating that he 
commenced employment as a "Scientist III" in February 2023.2 While this new evidence corroborates 
the Petitioner's claimed annual salary with his new employer, it cannot establish that he satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) at the time he filed this petition in June 2021. As noted in our 
prior decision, USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the 
benefit sought at the time the petition is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A visa petition cannot be 
approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new 
set of facts. See Matter ofMichelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). 
Here, the Petitioner has not provided new facts that would overcome our dismissal ofthe prior motion. 
Because the Petitioner has not established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, 
we have no basis to reopen that decision. Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
With respect to the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner does not claim on motion that our prior 
decision, dismissing the previous combined motions, was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy or that it was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. In fact, 
his statement in support of the motion contains no reference to our prior decision. Rather, the 
Petitioner provides a table listing the evidence and arguments he asserts establish his eligibility under 
six criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, and in support of his prior combined motions, 
he provided a nearly identical chart. While the Petitioner continues to maintain he submitted sufficient 
evidence to establish eligibility for the requested classification, he cannot meet the requirements of a 
motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions or repeating arguments that have 
already been considered in previous decisions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter 
of law or policy in our last decision. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a 
motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented 
on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board decision"). 
Here, the Petitioner does not identify any specific error of law or policy in our prior decision. Rather, 
he requests a general reconsideration of his eligibility, which is insufficient to meet the requirements 
2 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted supplemental evidence related to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) in July 2023, approximately three months after filing this motion. Although the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(2)(vii) states that a petitioner may be permitted additional time to submit a brief or additional evidence to our 
office in connection with an appeaL no such provision applies to a motion to reopen or reconsider. The additional evidence 
must comprise the motion. See 8 C.F.R § I 03.5(a)(2) and (3). We note that this supplemental evidence also relates to the 
Petitioner's claim that he earns a high salary based on his current employment as a scientist III, a position he assumed after 
the denial of the petition. As observed above, even ifwe considered this evidence, it could not demonstrate the Petitioner 
satisfied the plain language of this criterion at the time of filing or provide proper cause for reopening. 
2 
of motion under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, 
the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, 
he has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our 
previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our 
decision. Therefore, the motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2023 In Re: 25767360 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three ofthe alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 We agreed with the Director's decision and dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we overlooked a number of items in our prior decision and that 
he has satisfied at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We note that 
contrary to the claim that we "completely ignored" the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), as we explained in our decision, we reserved the issue2 because the Petitioner would 
not have been able to "fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria."3 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As discussed in our prior decision, the evidence regarding the Petitioner's awards from Telenedelya 
and the Ukraine edition of Cosmopolitan does not establish that either award was nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. In addition, we explained that none of the 
Petitioner's five claimed awards for the reality television show I !identify him as the 
recipient. 
On motion, the Petitioner continues to contend that he received the most votes from the Ukrainian 
people to win these awards. The Petitioner also explains that Cosmopolitan has a large circulation for 
the Ukrainian edition and, thus, Cosmopolitan awards are nationally recognized awards for excellence. 
In support, the Petitioner submits articles regarding Cosmopolitan magazine's circulation in Ukraine 
and its popularity worldwide. However, the record does not contain evidence showing that his awards, 
such as "Man of the Year" and "Telestar," are nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in the.field. 
With regard to the five awards for j lthe Petitioner states that he previously submitted 
a letter from the production company, I Iwhich confirms that he was the 
leading host and that he played an integral part in receiving the award. However, as we have explained, 
in order to satisfy the plain language of this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he was the 
recipient of the prizes or awards. The record indicates that the show ~------~ received the 
five awards and not the Petitioner in particular. 4 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner submitted articles from a variety of sources, some of 
which did not identify the author as required. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish the 
significance of the provided statistics to show that they appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he submitted more than five articles that included the authors' 
names and dates of publication. Many of the remaining articles, however, do not appear to relate to 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 Because the Petitioner does not meet any additional criteria, we will again reserve this criterion. Id. 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that the description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.) 
2 
his work in the field, but rather are interviews that ask questions about the "kind of girls" he likes, "the 
main thing" he looks for "when choosing a car," and "the best" football league. Regardless, he has 
not shown how their circulation compares to other publications. Thus, the Petitioner does not establish 
that these articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 5 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
We determined that the letters from colleagues, promotional information froml !channel, and 
Y ouTube screenshots did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's original work rises to the level ofartistic 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner continues to contend that because he has created and produced several 
popular TV shows, has been a host on the 1 t has a large social media 
following, 6 and has endorsements and contracts wit~ Ihe has 
demonstrated that he meets this criterion. The issue here is not whether he has been a contributor in 
some manner, but rather that he must demonstrate that he has made original artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field ofentertainment. Here, the Petitioner does not provide new information 
or evidence on motion to overcome our prior conclusions. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On motion, the Petitioner states that "[t]he fact that.__________ __, has a distinguished 
reputation is not relevant because it is the larogram that matters" and provides a letter from the chief 
executive officer ofI and copies of 'l tratinf from 2016, 2017, 
and 2019. In addition, the Petitioner states that the Ukrainian channel that shows I I lis a national organization or establishment 'just as a business or political party or a church and 
thus has a distinguished reputation." 
In the letter from the chief executive officer of._________ ____. the author lists the various 
awards that the l I show has won and asserts that due to these awards and the popularity 
of the show,.___~ ______ __, has a distinguished reputation as it is the production company 
for the show. With regard to the Petitioner performing in a leading or critical role, the author states 
that the Petitioner "has always played the role of the protagonist of each episode of the 1 I 
c=lshow," which makes him the "leading role in a capacity ofthe TV host forl I c=./ The author farther states that "the production team [ for j ~ unanimously agreed 
that they owned [sic] the success to [the Petitioner] due to his professional acting, presentation, 
comedy skills, and his ability to charm the audiences." In addition, the author states that the Petitioner 
"contributed in a significant matter to screen writing efforts," which is a "critical contribution." The 
author also contends that the "seasons when [the Petitioner] was a co-host were the most popular 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics) 
6 While we acknowledge the error in FN 12 of our previous decision, the Petitioner has not established that his popularity 
on social media represents an original artistic or business-related contribution of major significance in the field. 
3 
seasons out of the entire lifetime of the~....------~~ show" and references the show's ratings 
from 2016, 2017, and 2019. 
The plain language of this criterion requires for the organizations or establishments to have a 
distinguished reputation, defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person."7 While the Petitioner was the lead host for l I I I he does not demonstrate how the shows in which he appeared ,.........._ ___..___, 
izations or establishments consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover while 
' may have won various awards, the evidence is insufficient to establish that .________ ___, 
has a distinguished reputation. B
Regarding the Petitioner's invitation as a representative and liaison for the youth oti Ias we 
explained, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to establish that his role was leading 
or critical and provides no new evidence on motion to overcome this conclusion. 
Finally, we note that his role as a presenter at a charity event for Ukraine in New York on I I 
02023 occurred after the filing ofthe petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
As we discussed in our prior decision, the letters from._l--~-----__.,l...,,andl II I and Y ouTube screenshots showing "views" of I I were insufficient to 
establish that the volume of sales or television revenue forl Ireflects the Petitioner's 
commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional information about 'I Iincluding 1....-~ 
.________ __.ratings for the show, and also mentions that he "has been a host of TV programs 
which has sponsors such as I t In addition, the 
Petitioner states that TV companies in the Ukraine do not publish the volume of sales for programs 
and consider that information confidential. 
Although the Petitioner provided additional information such as ratings information for thelI I for various weeks, it does not overcome our prior conclusion. .___ ___, 
Because the new materials submitted on motion do not show proper cause for reopening, we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that we misapplied law or 
policy and that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of the decision. Thus, we will also dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
7 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited m 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2023 In Re: 28086854 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive with expertise in machine learning software, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In his native Israel, the Petitioner was an officer in the Directorate of the Israel Defense 
Forces (IDF), leading its Upon leaving the IDF in 2012, the 
Petitioner co-founded....._ __________ _., later renamed I Ibased 
in I IMassachusetts, and he spent several years traveling between Israel and the United States. 
He most reelntly Ttered the United States in 2020 as an L-1 nonimmigrant intracompany transferee 
to serve as vice president of research and development. The Petitioner claims to have 
"revolutionized the field of mineral discovery with his machine learning platform." Since June 2020, 
the Petitioner has served as the chief executive officer oti Ianother! !company 
he co-founded. BothI I use machine learning to identify likely locations of mineral 
deposits for the mining industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six ofthese criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers; 
• (v), Original contributions ofmajor significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied any ofthe claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets four criteria, pertaining to prizes or awards; judging the work ofothers; 
original contributions; and leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding authorship of scholarly articles and high remuneration, and therefore we 
consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on those two criteria. 1 
Upon review ofthe record, we agree with the Director's conclusions, as discussed below. 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. AttJJ Gen., 401 F .3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 201 l)(finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards jar excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner states that he received three awards for his military service in Israel. 
The Petitioner documented his receipt of the 2005 Israeli lfrom Israel's Defense Ministry. 
The Petitioner submitted printouts ofnews articles about the prize, but these articles are from other years 
and do not discuss the Petitioner's receipt of the prize. The Petitioner did not submit evidence from the 
Defense Ministiy to explain why the Petitioner won the prize. That inf01mation would be relevant 
because the Petitioner must show that he received the prize for excellence in the field of endeavor that he 
intends to pursue in the United States. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from former IDF officers, but these individuals did not discuss the 
Beneficiaty's receipt of the Israeli Ior claim that they were in a position to know why the 
Petitioner received it. The letters focus, instead, in the Petitioner's work on defense strategy in the years 
after he received the award. 
The Petitioner claimed that he "received two commendations from [the] United States Southern 
Command and Special Operations Command," but his introductory statement included no further 
information about the claimed commendations or the circumstances under which he received them. A 
letter from a special activities advisor at the U.S. Depatiment of Defense indicates that the Petitioner 
participated in a collaboration between the U.S. and Israeli armed forces, but the letter does not mention 
any commendations. 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs ofwhat appear to be two challenge coins. The legend on one 
coin reads "United States / Special Operations Command"; the other reads "USSOCOM / JS Strategy 
Plans and Policy." The photographed objects are not labeled as commendations and they do not show 
the Petitioner's name, and the Petitioner provided no other evidence relating to them. The photographs, 
by themselves, do not document the Petitioner's receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor that he seeks to pursue in the United States. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested documentation to show the criteria for the claimed 
prizes and to explain why he received them. The Petitioner's response did not address this issue. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not submitted requested evidence and 
information necessary to show that he satisfied this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
received the "extraordinarily prestigious" Israel I l"[fJor his brand-new intelligence and 
analytics methodologies," and he repeats the claim that he received "commendations" from the two 
named U.S. military commands. But the Petitioner has not submitted any first-hand documentation from 
Israel's Defense Ministiy to explain why he received the Israeli prize, or from the U.S. Department of 
Defense to show that he received the challenge coins as "commendations," and to explain the basis for 
those commendations. 
The Petitioner has not documented his receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in his intended field of endeavor. 
3 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific. scholarly. artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner stated that he "is responsible for bringing search and find machine learning methodologies 
to the mining industry. These patent-pending methods are fifty times more effective at mineral discovery 
than traditional means, having a major impact on the industry, as confirmed by field experts." A U.S. 
patent application filed in 2018 names the Petitioner as one of three inventors of 'I I 
I I 
The Petitioner's initial submission included three letters discussing his machine learning platform. One 
is fromLJ chief executive officer (CEO), a co-inventor of the technology. The Petitioner stated that 
the second letter is from "a global expert in the field ofmachine learning," and the third is from "a global 
~in the field ofmineral discovery." Both of those individuals - a professor ofcomputer science at 
l__JUniversity and a professor of geology at College -were actively collaborating with the 
Petitioner at the time of filing, as technical advisors to The three submitted letters, therefore, all 
present the perspectives ofindividuals associated with 
D CEO stated: 
In business, one will come across many innovative ideas, but few are ever translated into 
real-world applicability. [The Petitioner] has accomplished this feat, introducing "Search 
& Find" methods to mining exploration . 
. . . Considering that each exploration attempt costs roughly two-to-five million dollars, 
this method holds the potential to save untold amounts oftime and money in bottom line 
expenditures. Most impressively, [the Petitioner's] application of "Search & Find" 
machine learning methods is only in its initial stage, with untold practical applications still 
to be implemented .... 
. . . [The Petitioner's] expertise has positioned us as a forerunner in the mining exploration 
industry. 
The Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to establishc=]position "as a forerunner in the 
mining exploration industry," or to show that practical application of the technology has borne out 
expectations ofits "potential to save untold amounts oftime and money." 
TheLJprofessor stated that the mining industry requires "[t]he abi{ity tol more accurately find metals 
such as copper, zinc, and cobalt, and to do so with precision," and that technology "is transforming 
the mining industry." She asserted: "in a recent blind test, [the Petitioner's methodology] performed 50 
times more accurately than the current industry standard (for discovering economically viable deposits)." 
She provided no further details, and the record does not document this test. 
TheI I College professor stated that he has served "as a senior technical consultant for I...._ __, 
mineral discovery platform," but did not otherwise discuss that platform or its significant in the field. 
Instead, he devoted most of his letter to discussing a "postdoctoral research project" on which both he 
4 
and the Petitioner served "on the steering committee." The professor provided few additional details, 
stating that "the results of the research are currently subject to the terms ofa confidentiality agreement." 
This confidentiality means that the research results have not yet been disseminated to the wider field. The 
Petitioner does not claim that, or explain how, his advisory role on a graduate student's research project 
amounted to an original contribution by the Petitioner. 
Apart from statements from individuals employed by or working with0the only initial evidence that 
the Petitioner cited as evidence of the si ificance ofhis contributions is a blog post on Medium, entitled 
" The article discusses 12 
' The article devotes one paragraph to ~--------------------~ reproduced in full below: 
Born out of the Israeli high-tech community in 2013,.....____________ __. 
is a private~funid exploration company focused on identifying tier 
1, world class assets. Based in and a member of the MIT Computer Science and 
Artificial Intelligence Laborat01y describe their approach as a Discove1y Platfo1m; 
an end-to-end discovery and resources definition package, which combines expert 
knowledge and data science. Known in the market for the applicability of their approach 
to identify large porphyry copper depositsOemphasise that their platform is applicable 
for a range of mineral deposits at a variety of scales and in a range ofjurisdicti~ 
also collaborate with a range ofleading universities and research groups such asL_J 
College,! I 
The article does not comment on the significance ofthe Petitioner's platform. Rather, it paraphrasesD 
own description and evaluation of the platform. The article does not indicate or establish that the 
Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance. The article indicates that D is 
"[k ]nown in the market for the applicability oftheir approach to identify large porphyry copper deposits," 
but "applicability" is not synonymous with majr sijificance in the field. In the absence offurther details 
and corroboration, this vague statement that technology can be used to identify some copper 
deposits is not sufficient to establish the major significance ofthe Petitioner's original contributions. 
The Petitioner asserted that the Medium article shows that ' 
~-----~' But while the article profiles several companies usrg jachine learning, it does not 
indicate that rivals are "followingI I lead" or that was the first company in its 
field to use machine learning in the manner described. 
In the RFE, the Director requested "[o ]bjective, documentary evidence of the significance of the 
beneficiary's contribution to the field" and "[o]bjective, documentary evidence that people throughout 
the field currently consider the beneficiary's work important." The Director also requested evidence of 
the Petitioner's "work being implemented by others." 
In response to tl1e RFE, tl1e Petitioner stated that he "launched a machine learning revolution in tl1e mining 
industry" "[w]ith [his] platform's debut in 2013." The Petitioner stated: '~-------~ 
formed a partnership with ~-------~ to explore for copper deposits in several highly 
5 
prospective areas ofnorthern Chile. This shows that [the Petitioner] made an original contribution to the 
industry that was adopted by the industry leader in gold and copper mining." 
To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted a 2015 press release from~I___.I which usesDformer 
name and reads, in part: 
Thus we have formed a strategic partnership with.______________ __. to 
explore for copper deposits in a number ofhighly prospective areas ofnorthern Chile . 
. . .c=]is pioneering a new, multidisciplina1y approach to exploration. The company 
has built a world-class team of experts who have a proven track record of copper 
discoveries and expertise in machine learning and big data analysis, among other 
disciplines. Their internal R&D lab uses proprietary technology to develop new strategies 
and tools designed to increase the probability of discovery, faster than conventional 
approaches and at lower costs. They combine world-class technical expertise with cutting­
edge computer science, and they bring in learning from other industries to develop non­
traditional approaches. 
The quoted language is complimenta1y towardD staff and technology, but there is no recognizable 
reference specifically to technology that the Petitioner developed. The latent application submitted with 
the petition dates from July 2018, more than three years afterl press release, and therefore it is 
not evident that the vague phrase "cutting-edge computer science" refers to the technology described in 
the patent application. 
The press release states that I Itechnology represents an improvement over "conventional 
approaches," but does not establish that this improvement has major significance in the field. We note 
that the press release lppears rannounce the beginrng or the partnership betweenl I and 
does not indicate that had yet implemented technology or that the technology had ah-eady 
improved yields. We also note that the partnership withl lbegan nearly five years before the 
Petitioner filed the petition, but his initial filing did not mention this partnership at all. The record is, 
therefore, silent as to the results of the collaboration. 
~--~I general mention ofLJtechnology in its own press release does not show that the Petitioner's 
machine learning contributions have "provoked widrpread f°mmentary" in the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The press release does not suffice to establish 
the major significance of the Petitioner's original contribution. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner cited "his current endeavor as a chief executive atl [" 
but he did not establish! I until June 2020, three months after he filed the petition. The initial petition 
did not indicate that the Petitioner sought to establish such a company. Rather, the initial filing was 
predicated on his continued involvement with[] which employed him at the time of filing. A petitioner 
must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). If the Petitioner 
was not already eligible at the time of filing, then he cannot become qualified later under a new set of 
facts while retaining the priority date of the same petition. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 
(Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
6 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's patent application, but concluded that the 
Petitioner had not shown "that the patent has been licensed and/or resulted in significant commercial 
sales, or had an impact on researchers or individuals in the field." The Director stated that the submitted 
letters do not establish the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions. The Director observed 
that~-----~did not exist until after the petition's filing date, and thatl Ipress release 
"does not discuss the petitioner or his contributions." 
On appeal, the Petitioner revisits p1ior claims, already addressed above. The Petitioner also states: 
[The Petitioner] is a top-tier researcher in the field of business who has developed and 
deployed new Search & Find methodologies to discover and extract military intelligence, 
as well as to discover minerals. . . . His methodology, which resulted in significant 
classified discoveries by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), earned [the Petitioner] the Israel 
I I 
We have already discussed the award. Before the appeal, the Petitioner had not claimed that his military 
work included contiibutions of major significance. A retired Israeli milita1y officer stated that the 
Petitioner had served on a "multidisciplinary team of senior IDF operational officers" whose work 
included "the application of... Intelligence 'Search-and-Find' methodologies," but he did not elaborate, 
stating only that "a majority of this taskforce's work remains classified," and thus unavailable for wider 
dissemination. He did not state or imply that the Petitioner's work with '"Search-and-Find' 
methodologies" led to his receipt of the Israel~-----~ Rather, he stated that the 
"multidisciplinary team" was active "[ d]uring the years 2008-2009 ," several years after the Petitioner 
received the Israel I lin 2005. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not documented the 
reason why he received that award. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, has not shown that the Director erred in concluding that the Petitioner has not 
established the major significance ofthe original contribution identified in the petition. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion ofthe remaining two criteria, relating 
to leading or critical roles and judging, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve those issues. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work that indicates 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner served on a decorated team while working for IDF, but the record does not show that he 
earned national or international acclaim as a result. He submitted publicity materials about the Israel I I but has not shown that he was publicly named as a winner. Whatever valid reasons there 
may have been for not publicizing the Petitioner's name, the Petitioner has not established that his receipt 
of the prize contributed to, or resulted in, national or international acclaim. Also, he has not shown the 
extent to which the prize relates to the field of endeavor in which he claims extraordinary ability. Some 
of the Petitioner's military service involved machine learning software that could be similar to what he 
now applies to the mining industty, but the Petitioner has not established a more direct connection 
between his military and civilian work. 
Praise in the record for the Petitioner's machine learning platform has come from individuals connected 
withO and entities that were funding or doing business with D It is generally expected that one 
whose accomplishments have garnered sustained national or international acclaim would have received 
recognition for his or her accomplishments well beyond the circle ofhis or her personal and professional 
acquaintances. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Published material about the 
Petitioner's platform consists largely of promotional press releases from entities that have business 
relationships withO and a blog post on Medium. The Petitioner's name does not appear in most of 
these published pieces, which limits the individual acclaim that could result from them. Discussion of 
the Petitioner's machine learning platform centers on tests described in general terms and expectations 
regarding the platform's anticipated future performance, rather than evidence that commercial use ofthe 
system has already yielded results that have had a significant impact on the mining industry. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2023 In Re: 25693008 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of English, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
satisfied the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) which requires, in pertinent part, "clear 
evidence that the [individual] is coming to the United States to continue to work in the area of 
expertise." The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation to establish his 
eligibility under any of the ten regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 Moreover, citing 
to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established "by clear 
evidence that [he] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area ofexpertise...." because 
the Petitioner's area of expertise was psychoanalysis, which conflicted with his stated intention to 
teach and perform research in the field of English language and literature. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a statement, explaining that his doctorate degree is in English and 
that he intends to teach English language and literature, and that his research will benefit the United 
States by using psychological theories found in literature to improve the mental health of Americans. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that contrary to the Director's conclusion that his field of expertise 
is psychology, his intention is to teach English language and literature. The Petitioner also explains 
that he is submitting new recommendations letters that make clear he will teach in the field of English 
language and Literature and that the authors of the letters previously submitted stating that he was 
going to teach "trauma studies" were not aware of his future plans in the United States, and only "his 
inclination [] towards psychology." Nonetheless, the Petitioner has provided contradictory 
information that has not been sufficiently resolved. For example, the cover letter accompanying his 
petition, and signed by him on May 13, 2022, states he will continue his research in the area of"trauma 
studies and psychoanalysis." Furthermore, other documents also claim that he has a doctorate in 
trauma studies, including the printout of a portion of the Petitioner's own book in the publication, 
Scholars' Press, which states 1 !qualified his doctorate on Trauma Studies in 2018 fromIUniversity, India .... His interests include psychoanalysis proposed by [Freud], 
[Lacan], [Jung], and [Adler]." A petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and 
sufficiency of other evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. 
1 We acknowledge the Director's typographical error regarding the criterion for authorship of scholarly mticles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media and note that the Petitioner addresses this criterion on 
appeal. 
2 I 
Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not provided sufficiently clear evidence 
that he is coming to the United States to continue to work in his area of expertise as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 04.5(h)(3)(iii),(iv), and 
(vi). 2 
Evidence ofthe person's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the evidence did not meet the plain language of the criterion because the 
reviews he conducted were in the field of psychology, and not in English Language or Literature. On 
appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion and submits documentation that he asserts 
establishes his role as an adviser and evaluator of doctoral students in his field. 
A petitioner may be able to meet this criterion by "serving as a member of a Ph.D. dissertation 
committee that makes the final judgment as to whether a candidate's body of work satisfies the 
requirements for a doctoral degree, as evidenced by departmental records." See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l)(criterion 4), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Moreover, a petitioner 
must show that the individuals he is judging are in the same or allied field. Id. The Petitioner's 
evidence does not establish this criterion for several reasons. First, the individuals he was judging 
appear to be students, and not yet professionals in the "same or allied field." Second, while we 
acknowledge that the Petitioner was invited to be a panelist at the "Department Doctoral Board" and 
on the "Research Advisory Committee" for Ph.D. pre-submission evaluation, his role was as an 
advisor to students seeking a Ph.D. rather than as a judge making a "final judgement" about the 
individual's satisfaction of the requirements for a doctoral degree. 
The provided evaluations show that his role was advisory in nature and not as a judge making a final 
determination regarding the candidate's eligibility for a Ph.D. For example, his evaluation comments 
for one student shows that he was advising her to "unearth uniqueness in the area of proposed topic." 
Another evaluation shows him advising the student to "narrow down the theoretical framework to four 
theories which he would apply on the criminal characters depicted in the anthology to comprehend the 
depth of crime." We acknowledge that he appears to be a faculty member and that in this role, he has 
been asked to advise students seeking a Ph.D., however the evidence is insufficient to show that he 
has participated as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or allied field for the above stated reasons. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
As such, he has not met this criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility under at least one criterion and would 
therefore be unable to reach the requisite minimum of at least three criteria under step one of 
Kazarian 's analytical framework, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate 
2 As the Petitioner does not address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (v) regarding membership and original 
contributions, we consider them waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter 
ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)) (an issue not raised on appeal is considered waived). 
3 
arguments regarding the two remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)3 and (vi). 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make 
findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
While we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 
1119-20, we note that the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. We have long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 We do note, however that the article by.__ ______ _,incorrectly states that the Petitioner obtained a Ph.D. in 
Trauma Studies ('Oeamed his doctorate in Trauma Studies in 2018") and that he has contributed to the field ofTrauma 
Studies through his publications. As above, this information conflicts with the Petitioner's own evidence that he obtained 
a Ph.D. in English in 2018, as well as the education evaluation he provided to show he has a Ph.D. in English. We also 
note that the article by I lwas inexplicably published in the Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research. The 
Petitioner should address these inconsistencies in any future filings. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 06, 2023 In Re: 29200858 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification by providing evidence of his receipt of a 
major internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. 
We have since adjudicated fifteen motions filed by the Petitioner between 2014 and 2023 . Most 
recently, we dismissed a motion to reconsider on June 8, 2023. The matter is now before us on 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss both 
motions. 
In our latest decision, we determined that the Petitioner's fifteenth motion did not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider as stated at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). While we acknowledged 
that the Petitioner submitted a brief and summarized the assertions he made therein, we concluded that 
those assertions did not demonstrate how we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our 
immediate prior decision dated February 2, 2023, in which we dismissed his fourteenth motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner has submitted a brief, copies of his previous motion 
filings, and copies of previous USCIS receipt notices, transfer notices, and decisions issued by the 
Director and by our office. The previous motions, corresponding decisions, and other notices are 
already part of the record and are not new evidence that could provide proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. Further, although the Petitioner submits a brief: he does not state any new facts that would 
warrant reopening. Accordingly, his submission does not meet the requirements ofa motion to reopen. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly stated in our June 8, 2023 decision that we had 
dismissed his 14 previous motions. 1 The Petitioner emphasizes that he has filed "much more" than 
14 previous motions, suggests that we "ignored" certain motions, and maintains that USCIS "needs to 
find the missing motions" and approve his case. 
As noted, this motion includes documentation related to the Petitioner's previous motion filings. 
While it is true that the Petitioner had filed more than 14 prior motions at the time we issued our latest 
decision, the record reflects that some of these motions were filed in connection with the denial of his 
Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status and associated applications 
for employment authorization, while the first two motions filed in connection with this petition pre­
dated the filing of the Petitioner's appeal and were adjudicated by the Director. None of these 
additional motions fell under our jurisdiction and were therefore not included in our summary of the 
procedural history of the Petitioner's case. We have adjudicated the Petitioner's initial appeal and all 
15 motions that fell under our jurisdiction and the record reflect that all other motions were adjudicated 
by the USCIS office with jurisdiction over them. The record does not support the Petitioner's claim 
that certain motions were ignored, are missing, or otherwise remain unadjudicated. 
The Petitioner further asserts that our latest decision dismissing his fifteenth motion "didn't answer 
any facts" he submitted in support of his motion to reconsider, did not include a final merits 
determination as described in Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010), and did not consider 
that all the evidence submitted to date "met more than 100% ofthe requirements ofUSCIS" and should 
have resulted in the approval of his petition. 
We emphasize again that by regulation, the scope of a motion to reconsider is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The Petitioner's fifteenth motion was not a motion to reconsider 
1 The Petitioner also objects to our statement that we "dismissed" 14 prior motions, noting that some ofthose motions were 
"denied" while others were "dismissed." The Petitioner claims that there is a distinction between a motion that is 
"dismissed" as opposed to "denied," but provides no legal support for the asseition. While the AAO has used both terms 
interchangeably over the course of adjudicating the Petitioner's 15 prior motions, we discern no difference in the 
outcome. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) ("A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed."). While 
inconsistent, we deem this to be a harmless error at most, as it did not affect the outcome of the decision and has not 
prejudiced the Petitioner. 
2 
the denial of the petition or any other earlier decision; our scope of review was limited to our decision 
dismissing the fourteenth motion. 
As noted, in our latest decision, we acknowledged and briefly summarized the Petitioner's various 
claims that he is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. However, as we 
explained in the decision, none ofthe Petitioner's assertions in the previous motion demonstrated how 
we erred in our immediate prior decision dismissing his fourteenth motion, and therefore did not 
establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, as required to meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In adjudicating the Petitioner's 
fifteenth motion, we were not required to consider new objections to the earlier denial, new allegations 
of error at prior stages of the proceeding or claims of eligibility that had already been addressed on 
appeal and in our prior motion decisions. The Petitioner has not cited any relevant law, precedent, or 
USCIS policy in support of his claim that we were required to address every point raised in his brief 
or to conduct a de novo review of the entire record of proceeding. We have reviewed the Petitioner's 
prior motion to reconsider and confirm that it contained no specific claim that our dismissal of the 
fourteenth motion was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that we improperly dismissed the fifteenth motion. 
The Petitioner's remaining contentions in the current motion merely reargue facts and issues we have 
already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board 
decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition remains 
denied. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts sufficient to overcome our previous decision. Nor has he 
established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the 
time we issued our decision. Consequently, the Petitioner has not met the applicable requirements for 
either a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. The motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 7, 2023 In Re: 28980948 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a project manager in augmented reality and virtual reality, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not 
fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he meets four evidentiary categories. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims eli ibilit for this criterion based on his recei t of the Certificate of Merit from 
the,__________________________ _. USCIS determines if the 
person was the recipient of prizes or awards. 1 The description ofthis type of evidence in the regulation 
indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
USCIS then determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award, which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
The Petitioner initially submitted a certificate indicating his receipt ofthe award "for his great personal 
contribution to the development of environmental management, environmental protection and active 
participation in the preparations for the Year of Ecology in Russia." In response to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided a letter from K-M-S-, director of the I 
who stated: 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
2 I 
This award is given to civil servants of the._________________ __.I l federal services, and federal agencies under the Ministry's 
jurisdiction, their territorial bodies, employees of subordinate organizations, and other 
individuals for their personal contribution to the implementation of the state policy in 
the field of studying, using, reproducing, and protecting natural resources. 
The criteria for evaluation for receiving (the Honorary Certificate) are the project's 
uniqueness, its potential for subsequent use, its demonstration of responsible nature 
management, and its scalability. All of this is stated in the application, which is 
addressed to the Minister. Heads of subordinate organizations are responsible for the 
information provided in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. In 
case of the detection of false information, the award is revoked, and the applicant is 
held responsible for the inaccurate information provided, up to criminal liability. 
The Petitioner did not establish how the letter reflects the national or international recognition for 
excellence in the field for the Certificate of Merit. The letter does not discuss the field's view of the 
Certificate of Merit or explain why the award is considered to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence. In this case, although the letter provides some background information, 
such as the evaluating criteria, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the recognition of the award beyond 
the._________________ ____. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the All-Russian 
Society for the Protection of Nature (ARSPN). USCIS determines if the association for which the 
person claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged 
by recognized experts in that field. 5 The petitioner must show that membership in the association 
requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 6 
The Petitioner initially submitted a membership confirmation letter from ARSPN and a 
recommendation letter from T-T-U-, member of ARSPN, who described several of the Petitioner's 
professional accomplishments but made no mention of the organization's membership requirements 
or judging body. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided another letter from 
T-T-U-who stated: 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
3 
Persons who make obvious contribution to the development and popularization of the 
protection of nature in the territory of the Russian Federation can become members of 
our Society. Board of the Society and the Chairman make decision on admission to 
members of Society on the basis of application and delivery of documents that confirm 
the professional activities of the applicant and his/her contribution to the development 
and popularization ofthe protection ofnature in the territory of the Russian Federation. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate how the letter shows that membership with ARSPN requires 
outstanding achievements and recognized national or international experts determine membership. In 
fact, based on the letter, membership requires an "obvious contribution." The letter does not further 
elaborate and explain what constitutes an "obvious contribution" and how that is tantamount to an 
"outstanding achievement." Moreover, while the letter indicates that the board and chairman make 
the decision on admission, the letter does not show whether they are considered to be recognized 
national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criteria relating to awards and memberships. Although 
the Petitioner also claims eligibility for the published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach these additional grounds 
because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 7 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing him among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 8, 2023 In Re: 29048144 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference 
(EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 201(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(l)(A). Noncitizens may obtain U.S. 
permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" 
and provide "extensive documentation" of recognition they received for achievements in their fields . 
Id. 
The Acting Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only one of 10 initial evidentiary criteria, two less than required before U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) would conduct a final merits determination for classification under 
the requested immigrant visa category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in 
finding insufficient evidence of: published material about the Petitioner; his original contributions to 
his field; and his receipt of a high salary for his services. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that, while the Petitioner has submitted qualifying published materials about 
himself, he has not demonstrated that he meets a third evidentiary requirement. We will therefore 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of 10 lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(1-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, users then 
determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements placing a noncitizen among the small percentage at the very top of their 
field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis 
of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANAL YSrS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese national and citizen, earned two master's degrees in 
management and a doctorate in engineering in his home country. He has more than 20 years of 
business management experience and currently serves as the chief executive officer (CEO) of an 
outdoor sporting goods company in China. He seeks to continue working as a business manager in 
the United States. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international award. 
He must therefore meet at least three of the 10 evidentiary requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he "performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he also provided evidence of: 
published materials about himself; his original contributions to his field; and his receipt of a high 
salary for his services. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), and (ix). 
A. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This evidentiary standard requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translations. Id. 
users first considers whether published material relates to a petitioner and their specific work in their 
field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the 
Agency then determines whether the material's source qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major medium. Id. 
1 Tfthe ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication , major trade 
publication, or major medi[um], relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles about himself published in four Chinese magazines from 
2020 to 2022. The articles relate to him and his work as a business manager. But the Director found 
that the materials do not establish the magazines as "professional or major trade publications, or other 
major media." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director also questioned the authenticity of two 
of the magazine articles, finding that the Petitioner printed them "from websites that allow for anyone 
to create an account and publish articles." 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted original 
issues of the magazines in which the articles about him appear. These original issues establish the 
articles' authenticity. The Petitioner also demonstrated that the magazines constitute professional 
publications. He submitted copies of online information from the publications describing the 
magazines ' intended audience as entrepreneurs and business managers . 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner has submitted evidence of published 
materials in professional publications about him and his business management work. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
B. Evidence of the Petitioner's Original Contributions 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . USCIS 
first considers whether a petitioner made original contributions in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency then determines whether the contributions have major significance in 
the field. Id. Relevant evidence may include: published materials about the significance of a 
petitioner's original work; letters and affidavits about their work; documentation citing their work at 
a significant level in the field; and patents and licenses stemming from the work or evidence of the 
work's commercial use. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted letters and copies ofnews articles regarding acquisitions and financial results 
that companies achieved under his management. The Director, however, found that he did not 
demonstrate "how his contributions amounted to original work and how his work impacted the field 
as a whole in a major and significant way." 
Assuming arguendo that the Petitioner's management activities constitute original business-related 
contributions in his stated field of business management, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently established the significance of his work in the field. The record shows that his 
companies' acquisitions and financial results affected the businesses and their individual industries. 
But the Petitioner does not explain how his achievements impacted the business management field as 
a whole. 
3 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , we reasonably interpret the phrase "major significance in the field" 
to require impact "on the field as a whole." Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 187 (D.N.J. 
2021) (emphasis in original) (citations omitted). In Krasniqi, a federal court agreed with us that a 
petitioner who founded a film festival did not sufficiently demonstrate the event's significance in her 
designated field of cinematography. Id. The court found that the petitioner did not show that others 
in the field widely viewed or regarded the festival or that it introduced new cinematographic methods 
or ideas. Id. at 188. 
The Petitioner contends that his managerial decisions leading to successful acquisitions and profitable 
financial results constitute original contributions in the business management field. But, like the 
petitioner in Krasniqi, he has not sufficiently demonstrated the significance of his contributions in the 
field as a whole. Like the petitioner in Krasniqi, he has not shown that his achievements generated 
widespread interest in the field or introduced new business management methods, strategies , or ideas. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a 2022 award for .__________ __, from the Chinese 
edition of the Harvard Business Review, a respected business management magazine . But the award 
bears the name of the Petitioner 's company, not his, and the record does not explain why the company 
received the award. Thus, the award does not sufficiently reflect widespread regard in the business 
management field for the Petitioner's contributions . 
The Petitioner also submitted recommendation letters from former supervisors of his and other 
business leaders. The letters recount his achievements. But they do not sufficiently explain the 
achievements' significance in the business management field. Thus, contrary to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner bas not submitted evidence of original business-related contributions 
of major significance in his field. 
C. Evidence of the Petitioner's High Salary 
This standard requires "[ e ]vidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Relevant 
evidence may include: tax returns, pay statements , or other evidence of past salary or remuneration 
for services; contracts, job offer letters, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for 
services; and comparative wage or remuneration data for a petitioner 's field, such as geographical or 
position-appropriate compensation surveys. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner initially stated that he received annual incomes of: 2,687,000 RMB 2 in 2019; 2,873,000 
RMB in 2020; and 3,128,000 RMB in 2021. But, in response to the Director's RFE, he changed those 
amounts to: 2,498,314 .57 RMB in 2019; 2,925,122.58 RMB in 2020; 3,893,894.83 RMB in 2021; 
and $3,137,609.46 RMB in 2022. 3 
The Petitioner also provided copies of compensation surveys and income tax records. The initial 
compensation surveys show that, as of 2021, 90% of CEOs of outdoor sporting goods companies 
received total annual cash benefits of less than 1,943,455 RMB. The Petitioner's RFE response 
2 RMB stands for Chinese yuan renrninbi. 
3 Based on current exchange rates, the Petitioner's 2022 annual income equates to about $440,729. XE Currency 
Converter, www.xe.com/currencyconverter. 
4 
included a 2022 compensation report listing the top salaries of a chief officer in the sales industry as 
2,400,000 RMB and of a general manager of a daily consumer goods company in the retail industry 
as 3,500,000 RMB. 
The Petitioner's initial filing included a first set oftax records, "Payment Records oflndividual Income 
Tax." These records show income tax amounts he paid from January 2019 through April 2022. The 
Petitioner's RFE response included a second set of tax records, "Beijing Tax Characteristic 
Applications." These records show both income tax amounts he paid and income amounts he received 
in 2019 through 2022. 
The second tax record set supports the Petitioner's claimed annual income amounts of 2,498,314.57 
RMB in 2019 and 2,925,122.58 RMB in 2020. But the 2021 annual income amount listed in the 
second set totals 2,223,061.50 RMB, not 3,893,894.83 RMB as the Petitioner most recently claims. 
Also, as the Director found, the Petitioner's tax record sets do not list the same tax amounts paid over 
the same periods, thus casting farther doubt on his claimed annual income amounts. Specifically, the 
first tax record set lists a June 6, 2021 tax payment of 730,715 RMB for income from wages and 
salaries that the second set omits. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated that his 2021 annual income increased from the initial 
amount he provided because he received a delayed bonus payment from his prior employer. But that 
statement does not explain why the first tax record set indicates that he paid more taxes that year while 
earning less income. 
Although the Director's decision mentions discrepancies in the amounts of taxes paid, the Petitioner 
has not explained them. Rather, he urges us to use the second tax record set. But, because the paid 
2021 tax amounts in the second set differ from those in the first, he has not established the second set's 
accuracy, including the income amounts listed in it. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 
1988 (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies). Thus, not only is the Petitioner's claimed income amount for 2021 -
which the second set does not support -unreliable, but his claimed annual income amounts for 2019 
and 2020 -which the second set supports -also lack credibility. Because the Petitioner has not reliably 
established his annual income amounts, he has not demonstrated that he has commanded a high salary 
in relation to others in the business management field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets at least three of 10 initial evidentiary requirements 
for the requested immigrant visa category. Thus, we need not make a final merits determination as to 
whether he qualifies as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability in his field. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues 
unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant does not otherwise qualify for 
relief). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner met a second initial evidentiary requirement by submitting copies of articles in 
professional publications about his work in the business management field. But he did not establish 
his satisfaction of a third evidentiary criterion as required for the requested immigrant visa category. 
We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2023 In Re: 29046472 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a comics creator and illustrator, seeks classification under the employment-based , first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" and provide "extensive documentation" ofrecognition they received 
for achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Acting Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only one of 10 initial evidentiary criteria, two less than required for U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) to conduct a final merits determination for eligibility under the 
requested immigrant visa category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director misapplied 
law in finding insufficient evidence of: his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
published materials about himself; and his performance in a leading or critical role for organizations 
with distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that, while the Petitioner has submitted qualifying evidence of his receipt of a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in his field, he has not demonstrated his satisfaction of a 
third evidentiary requirement. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, USCIS then 
determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements placing the noncitizen among the small percentage at the very top of their 
field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis 
of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Venezuelan national and citizen, began creating and illustrating 
comics in his home country in the 1970s. Specializing in action heroes, he co-founded an artistic 
merchandising company where, from 2006 to 2020, he served as president and lead illustrator and 
artist. 
Since 2020, the Petitioner has been working at a comic book development company in the United 
States as a comics creator and illustrator. He seeks to continue designing comics in this country. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major, international 
award. He must therefore satisfy at least three of the 10 evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence of the display of his 
comics work at artistic exhibitions or showcases . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will next 
consider his claims that he: received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes; was the 
subject of published materials; and performed in a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (viii). 
A. Receipt of Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). USCIS first determines if a noncitizen -as opposed to their employer, for example -
received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. If so, the Agency then determines whether an award was nationally or internationally 
recognized and given for excellence in the field of endeavor. Id. Relevant considerations include: the 
1 If the ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation , the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
criteria used to grant the awards; their national or international significance; the number of recipients; 
and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he won a 20221 laward in Venezuela in the category 
of'----------------------~ According to letters from the award 
foundation's president, the organization issues prizes annually to 60 to 100 honorees in a variety of 
fields, including: art; entertainment; media; business; and science. The foundation president stated 
that groups of experts in specific fields evaluate candidates based on their professional careers. 
The Director found that the Petitioner's award "appear[s] to be local or regional in nature." The 
Director also stated that "it has not been established that the prizes or awards were given for excellence 
in the petitioner's field of endeavor, or that the primary purpose of the prizes or awards was to 
recognize excellence in the petitioner's field." Citing the award's website, the Director concluded that 
the Petitioner did not receive his prize for excellence in his field, but rather "for the years of 
experience." 
A preponderance of the evidence, however, demonstrates the Petitioner's satisfaction of the 
regulation's criterion. Documentation establishes his receipt ofthd laward and its national 
recognition in Venezuela. See Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1230-31 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (holding 
that, to meet 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), an award "need not have significance outside of one country"). 
The award foundation's president stated that "[award] candidates are chosen nationally and from all 
parts of the world" and that the awards' issuances are televised in Venezuela. She said that, because 
the foundation has given the awards for more than 60 years, their "prestige and credibility" make them 
"the number one [awards] in Venezuela." An online article about the prizes describes them as "[t]he 
award for excellence in Venezuela." The article also quotes the foundation's former president as 
saying: "In the world there are many important prizes, but in Venezuela the best thing is to have aI ~' The evidence therefore sufficiently establishes the Petitioner's award as nationally 
recognized. 
.______ ,.....__________ ---, 
field. A copy of the award describes its issuance in the category of .___________ ___.I I The award foundation's president stated that a group of experts in the field 
of "plastic arts" evaluated the Petitioner and chose him ahead of four others in the field. 2 Although 
the foundation gives awards only to those with at least 10 years of experience in their fields, the 
president indicated that the organization does not base the prizes solely on number of years of 
experience. Rather, she stated that the awards seek "to exalt and dignify the talent of the best, with a 
recognition to brilliant men and women, who have excelled through their artistic, cultural, religious, 
business, scientific, educational, historical and entrepreneurial skills." A preponderance of the 
evidence therefore establishes the Petitioner's receipt of the award for excellence in his field. The Petitioner has also demonstrated that he received his award for excellence in his 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner has demonstrated his receipt of a nationally 
recognized award for excellence in his field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary 
finding. 
2 In Latin America, the term "plastic arts" encompasses "painting, architecture, sculpture, textile art and all human 
expression that transforms materials into images and objects with aiiistic meaning." LatAm A1ie, "What Are Plastic Arts?" 
www.latamarte.com/en/articles/5MbA/ 
3 
B. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translations. Id. 
USCIS first considers whether published materials relate to a petitioner and their specific work in their 
field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then determines whether the 
materials' sources qualify as professional or major trade publications, or other major media. Id. 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major medi[um], relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies offour online articles about himself and his comics work. The articles 
bear the following publication dates: August 2014; May 2022; July 2022; and September 2022. 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence, the Petitioner submitted website analyses 
categorizing all four publication sources in the "news and media" industry. As the websites did not 
specifically target artists as audiences, the record does not establish the sources as professional or 
major trade publications. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) (listing the intended audience as a 
relevant factor "for professional and major trade publications"). 
Thus, we must determine whether any of the publication sources qualify as "other major media." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "[C]ourts generally agree that the phrase can mean a publication with 
significant reach and recognition. It follows that the AAO may reasonably require evidence of 
circulation or the like." Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D.N.J. 2021) (citations 
omitted). 
The website analyses provided by the Petitioner include readership statistics. The analyses state the 
following as of January 2023: 
• The source of the August 2014 publication generated 199,656 monthly visits. 6,437th in 
Venezuela and 28,246th in the news and media industry; 
• The source of the May 2022 publication generated 275,590 monthly visits, 1,150th in 
Venezuela and 12,894th in the news and media industry; 
• The source of the July 2022 publication generated 132,279 monthly visits, 272,043rd in the 
United States and 24,827th in the news and media industry; and 
• The source of the September 2022 publication generated 1.545 million monthly visits, 135th 
in Venezuela and 4,021st in the news and media industry. 
4 
Based on the number of monthly visits and rankings, we do not consider the sources of the August 
2014, May 2022, or July 2022 publications to constitute major media. But whether the source of the 
September 30, 2022 publication is a major medium is a much closer call. The adjective "major" 
ordinarily means "greater in dignity, rank, importance, or interest." Merriam-Webster Dictionary, 
"major," www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/major. The September 2022 source's generation of 
more than 1.5 million visits a month is substantial. But, based on the source's rankings as the 135th 
most visited website in Venezuela and 4,02lst in the news and media industry, the record does not 
demonstrate that the source constitutes a major medium. The record also lacks evidence of the 
source's level of dignity, importance, or interest. 
On appeal, the Petitioner urges us to "compare[] the [sources'] circulation or readership figures to 
those newspapers or magazines with similar intended audiences to determine if these figures raise it 
to the level of being considered major in nature." But we cannot make such comparisons because the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence ofthe readership statistics ofother publication sources. The appeal 
includes a copy of an online article, "Top 30 Venezuela Newspapers Online," ranking the source of 
the September 2022 publication about the Petitioner 10th. But the Director's RFE notified him of the 
need for additional evidence and gave him a reasonable opportunity to provide it. We therefore decline 
to accept the evidence on appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Also, 
even if we considered the article, it does not state readership statistics or the basis of its rankings. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted published materials in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, relating to his work in the comics field. We will 
therefore affirm the Director's negative finding regarding the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
C. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This standard requires "[ e ]vidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first determines whether a noncitizen has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or its division or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). Evidence of a leading role must demonstrate that the noncitizen is ( or was) a leader within 
the organization, establishment, division, or department. Id. In contrast, evidence of a critical role 
must establish that a noncitizen contributed in a significant way to the outcome of the activities of an 
organization, establishment, division, or department. Id. 
If a noncitizen establishes their performance in a leading or critical role, USCIS then determines 
whether the organization, establishment, department, or division that benefited has a distinguished 
reputation. Id. The Agency considers the relative size or longevity ofan organization or establishment 
along with other relevant factors, such as the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 
Id. 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in leading or critical roles for the company he co­
founded in Venezuela and the U.S. business for which he now works. The Director, however, found 
insufficient evidence that these businesses have or had distinguished reputations. The Director stated: 
"The evidence only provides general information and does not contain information about any awards, 
5 
recogmt10n, or achievements garnered by the organizations or establishments, or otherwise 
demonstrate that [they] have distinguished reputations." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked evidence. As proof that his 
Venezuelan employer had a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submitted materials showing his 
development of the company's most successful product: an action figure of a Venezuelan military 
hero and revolutionary. The company's president, who is also the Petitioner's daughter, stated that 
major media, including one of Venezuela's most widely read newspapers, published articles about the 
action figure. A letter from a distributor states that, from 2009 to 2012, it sold more than 2,000 of the 
eight-inch-tall action figures. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of additional articles about the action figure, confirming its design by 
the Petitioner and its manufacture by his former employer. But the evidence does not establish that 
the company's manufacture of the figure or the media recognition the business received for making it 
earned the company a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not shown that the company was 
large, conducted business for a long time, or enjoyed a wide customer base. 
As evidence that the Petitioner's current U.S. employer has a distinguished reputation, he submitted 
materials showing the company's publication of a comic book he created about a lifeguard/superhero 
and the employer's participation in major comic book conventions in the United States. The record, 
however, does not establish that the company's publication of the comic book or its participation in 
large comics conventions provide it with a distinguished reputation. The evidence does not indicate 
whether the comic book is popular or profitable, or whether the conventions limited the number or 
type of companies that could participate. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the organizations for which he has 
performed leading or critical roles have or had distinguished reputations. We will therefore also affirm 
the Director's finding regarding the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested immigrant visa category. Thus, we need not make a final merits 
determination as to his eligibility as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability in his field and hereby 
reserve his appellate arguments in that regard. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating 
that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate 
decisions); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternate issues on appeal where an applicant does not otherwise qualify for relief). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner met a second initial evidentiary requirement by demonstrating his receipt ofa nationally 
recognized award for excellence in his field. But he did not establish his satisfaction of a third 
evidentiary criterion as required for the requested immigrant visa category. We will therefore affirm 
the petition's denial. 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2023 In Re: 28963111 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to individuals who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification by documenting his receipt of a major 
internationally recognized award, or in the alternative, by submitting evidence that satisfies at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the 
Petitioner had willfully mispresented material facts related to his past employment and professional 
accomplishments . The Petitioner subsequently filed combined motions to reopen and reconsider, in 
which he contested the Director's finding of willful misrepresentation. The Director dismissed the 
motions. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 53 7, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to nonc1t1zens who (1) have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation; (2) seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area 
of extraordinary ability, and (3) will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. WILLFUL MISREPRESENTATION OF A MATERIAL FACT 
The Director denied the petition, in part, based on a conclusion that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts with respect to several criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). 
A finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against a petitioner requires the following 
elements: 1 
• The petitioner procured, or sought to procure, a benefit under U.S. immigration laws; 
• The petitioner made a false representation; 
• The false representation was willfully made; 
• The false representation was material; and 
• The false representation was made to a U.S. government official. 
Prior to denying the petition, the Director issued a notice of intent to deny (NOID) in accordance with 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8) and 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i) (stating that if a decision will be adverse to a 
petitioner and is based on derogatory information considered by USCIS and of which the petitioner is 
unaware, they shall be advised of this fact and offered an opportunity to rebut the information and 
present information on their own behalf before the decision is rendered). The Director advised that 
the derogatory information pertaining to the Petitioner's eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii) and (ix) had been obtained by USCIS through "extensive research" conducted 
to validate his book publications, "open source queries" made in an effort to confirm his stated 
employment history with a publicly traded Chinese company, and review of a nonimmigrant visa 
1 See generally 8 USC1S Policy Manual J.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. As outlined by the Board of 
Immigration Appeals, a material misrepresentation requires that one willfully makes a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. Matter ofKai Hing 
Hui, 15 T&N Dec. at 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. Sec Matter of Tijam, 22 T&N Dec. 
408,425 (BIA 1998); Matter of Healy and Goodchild, 17 T&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To be considered material, the 
misrepresentation must be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and 
which might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofNg, 17 l&N Dec. 536, 537 (BIA 
1980). 
2 
application (Form DS-160) the Petitioner had submitted to the U.S. Department of State in January 
2015, on which he had provided information regarding the salary he received from his former Chinese 
employer. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's response to the NOID included a brief from former counsel, a 
29-page personal statement from the Petitioner addressing the issues raised by the Director; and 
additional evidence intended to rebut the Director's determination that he had misrepresented material 
facts relating to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii) and (ix). 
The Director did not address the NOID or the Petitioner's response but concluded that the Petitioner 
willfully misrepresented material facts. Further, the Director referenced a criterion not previously 
mentioned in the NOID. Specifically, the Director stated that "[b ]y claiming the [petitioner] held 
certain positions, original contributions of major sign[ficance, earned a certain salary and authored 
certain scholarly articles, the petitioner willfully made a false representation, and it is material to 
whether the beneficiary is eligible for the requested benefit." No further explanation is provided for 
the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts related to his original 
contributions under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In addressing the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director acknowledged that 
the Petitioner submitted a statement and additional evidence in response to the NOID. However, the 
decision does not discuss the contents of the Petitioner's detailed statement or the evidence he 
submitted to corroborate his statement. Counsel correctly asserts on appeal that "the denial did not 
provide any detailed analysis of Appellant's rebuttal arguments; the denial largely tracks the original 
language from the NOID."2 
While the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to rebut derogatory information obtained 
from outside the record ofproceeding in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i), the Director erred 
by failing to give due consideration to the evidence and arguments the Petitioner submitted in rebuttal 
to the NOID. Because the Director did not explain why this evidence was insufficient to overcome 
the derogatory information, the decision provides insufficient support for a finding of willful 
misrepresentation. When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons 
for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See, e.g., Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
As written, the Director's denial notice did not explain why the Petitioner's rebuttal to the NOID was 
deficient and did not afford the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to provide specific responses on 
appeal or motion to potentially overcome the Director's determination that he had willfully 
misrepresented facts that are material to his eligibility for the benefit sought. Accordingly, the 
2 In addition, counsel states that the Petitioner, through former counsel, provided "copious amounts of evidence and legal 
briefing on each of USCTS' s findings" in support of his motion to reopen and reconsider, emphasizing that the decision 
dismissing the motion similarly "contained no substantive discussion on why the Appellant's rebuttal evidence 
insufficiently addressed USCIS' s concerns." 
3 
Director's decisions denying the underlying petition and subsequent motion are withdrawn and the 
matter will be remanded to the Director for farther consideration and issuance of a new decision with 
respect to the underlying petition. 
In that new decision, the Director must consider and address the evidence submitted in rebuttal to the 
NOID. The Director should also consider the evidence and arguments submitted in support of the 
Petitioner's motion and appeal and may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new willful misrepresentation determination and any other issue. Finally, the Director must inform 
the Petitioner and allow him an opportunity for a rebuttal if the decision will be based on any 
derogatory information from outside the record of proceedings that has not yet been disclosed to him. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2023 In Re: 29299987 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidentiary requirements through receipt of a one-time achievement or 
satisfaction of at least three of the ten categories of evidence. We dismissed the appeal and a 
subsequent motion to reopen. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our prior decision, we concluded the Petitioner's motion to reopen did not demonstrate eligibility 
for the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , and the original contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In addition, 
we determined that we would not consider his new eligibility claims and evidence for the membership 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) , and the high 
salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) because the Petitioner did not claim eligibility or 
submit the documentation before the Director. 
In the present motion to reconsider, the Petitioner highlights his personal and professional 
accomplishments, such as his education and language fluency, and claims he has "international[] 
influence ." In addition, the Petitioner describes some of his history with "UVC sterilization 
implementation" and opines on the "[ n Jew generation of future sterilization lamp semiconductor 
circuit." 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Here, the Petitioner does not explain or demonstrate how we erred as a 
matter oflaw or policy in dismissing his previous motion to reopen. Instead, the Petitioner emphasizes 
his past accomplishments and discusses the potential of his future work. See e.g., Matter of O-S-G-, 
24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, 
in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in 
the prior Board decision"). Because the Petitioner does not show how we misapplied law or point to 
policy contradicting our analysis of the evidence, the motion does not satisfy the requirements for a 
motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, 
therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2023 In Re: 28981666 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artificial intelligence and natural language processing technology business, seeks to 
classify the Beneficiary, a software engineer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary met five criteria, the 
Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the 
Beneficiary qualifies for three categories of evidence. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 2 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 3 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 4 
The Petitioner claims it demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on the 
submission of reference letters and patent information. The record reflects the Petitioner presented 
1 We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on 
appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N 
Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
several letters from individuals who worked with the Beneficiary. Although the letters indicate 
projects in which the Beneficiary collaborated or developed, the letters do not show how they resulted 
in original contributions of major significance in the field. Instead, the letters briefly describe the 
Beneficiary's projects without detailing the significance of the work in the field. For instance, "[the 
Beneficiary] worked as a Software Engineer on a project developing a single, universal solution for 
cardiac device patient management that meets the in-office needs of clinicians and the emerging and 
changing needs of remote patients" (O-B-); "[the Beneficiary] was responsible for a project that 
developed a clinical trial management system for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies"; and 
"we've done a few projects related to upgrades of OpenStack-based clouds, performance testing ofthe 
different scenarios live-migrations that are relevant in the enterprise environments" (V-N-). Here, 
none of the letters farther elaborate and describe whether the Beneficiary's projects or work has 
influenced or impacted the field in a major way. Similarly, although B-C-claimed the Beneficiary 
"had a tremendous impact on the [A-] product," the letter does not farther explain or justify how the 
Beneficiary "had a tremendous impact." Moreover, B-C-'s vague claim refers to the limited impact 
on the employer rather than the overall field. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance.5 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 6 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Beneficiary has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Regarding the patents, the Petitioner offered a letter from O-R-who stated the Beneficiary 
"contributed to the design architecture of our entire solution by applying his knowledge and skills in 
maintaining scalable, high-loaded Web applications" for P-. In addition, O-R-briefly described two 
patents in which the collaborated and stated "[t]his was a novel solution to the technical problem faced 
by systems for matching electronic activities to CRM system," and "[t]his invention ... represents a 
novel and original contribution to the development of information technology platforms for large­
scale, complex enterprise revenue intelligence systems." Again, O-R-did not farther elaborate and 
explain how the patents resulted in being majorly significant in the field. The letter, for example, does 
not show how the patents have impacted or influenced the field in a major manner. Furthermore, 
although O-R-listed five patents "where [the Beneficiary] has filed for patents to protect inventions," 
the letter does not indicate whether any of the patents have been commercialized or utilized by P-or 
has otherwise garnered widespread attention from the field. 
Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, 
significant contributions to the field. 7 Evidence that the person's work was fonded, patented, or 
published, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its 
own, that the work is ofmajor significance to the field. 8 Evidence that the person developed a patented 
5 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
6 Id. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
3 
technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance 
of the person's original contribution to the field. 9 Here, the Petitioner did not show how any of the 
patents involving the Beneficiary have been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish 
the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to original contributions. 
Although the Petitioner also claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach 
these additional grounds because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 11 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the 
Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
9 Id. 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ~ff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023)(determining that EB-1 visas 
are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and 
he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing the Beneficiary among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 13, 2023 In Re: 28805817 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research geophysicist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, determining the Petitioner knowingly made a false representation 
of a material fact in support of his petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." Regarding revocation on 
notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter ofEstime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time offiling the petition in December 2015, the Petitioner stated he was employed as a research 
physicist atl land indicated his work was focused on seismic modeling, imaging, 
and anisotropy. He received his doctor of philosophy degree in earth science atl ~ 
2 
The Petitioner did not initially indicate or establish that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, but sought to satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet the criteria relating to judging the work 
of others, original contributions of major significance, and authorship of scholarly articles. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi). In support of his claims of meeting those criteria and 
demonstrating his sustained national and international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation, the Petitioner submitted evidence including completed 
independent requests to review a number of manuscripts for professional publications; expert 
recommendation letters; his scholarly articles; and articles that have cited to his work. 
Ultimately, the Director approved the petition in January 2016, and the Petitioner was granted lawful 
permanent resident status on April 18, 2016, with a USCIS lawful permanent resident class code of 
E 16. In November 2020 the U.S. Embassy in Guangzhou returned the petition to the Director and 
recommended revocation. On March 30, 2023, the Director issued a notice ofintent to revoke (NOIR) 
and informed the Petitioner of the following: 
The Department of State returned the I-140 to USCIS because it appeared that the 
beneficiary was not eligible for the requested benefit OR after a review of the record, 
it appears that the petitioner did not submit relevant, probative, and credible evidence 
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the beneficiary is eligible for the 
requested benefit. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) and any 
other fact. Therefore, USCTS intends to revoke the approval of Form T-140. 
In this case the following issues independently form the basis for this intended 
revocation and will be discussed in this notice: 
• Fraud was found within the petitioners submitted documentation by the 
[N]ational Visa Center Fraud Prevention Unit. 
In accordance to the memorandum return[ed] to the Texas Service Center from the 
National Visa Center, dated November 18, 2020, it states the beneficiary submitted 
fraudulent documents to establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative element to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit indicating that the beneficiary is one ofthe 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Furthermore, the Director discussed the qualifying documentation that may satisfy the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and stated: 
If the beneficiary believes the beneficiary qualifies under any of the regulatory criteria 
that USCIS has determined that the beneficiary has failed to establish eligibility under, 
or any additional regulatory criteria, the beneficiary should submit clarifying evidence, 
or submit additional evidence in response to this portion of the notice o[±1 intent to 
deny. 
3 
As the beneficiary has not submitted evidence to demonstrate the beneficiary has met 
at least three of the 10 regulatory criteria. 
USCIS must now examine the evidence presented in its entirety to make a final merits 
determination of whether or not the beneficiary, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
has demonstrated that the beneficiary possesses the high level of expertise required for 
the E 11 immigrant classification. 
As discussed, USCIS has evaluated the evidence and determined that the evidence does 
not establish that the beneficiary is an individual of extraordinary ability in accordance 
with 203(b)(l)(A)(l) of the INA. 
In conclusion, the petitioner did not establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative 
element to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Therefore, the following 
issues independently form the basis for this intended revocation: 
• Fraud was found within the petitioners submitted documentation by the [N]ational 
Visa Center Fraud Prevention Unit. 
In response to the NOIR, the Petitioner asserted that he did not commit fraud in relation to the filing 
of his petition and that he has demonstrated his eligibility for classification as an induvial of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. He argued, through counsel, that although the NOIR indicates 
the existence of derogatory evidence in the form of "fraudulent documents," it "fails to state which 
allegedly fraudulent documents were submitted" and "thus the Petitioner can only guess as to what 
the issue may be." Citing Matter of Estime, the Petitioner asserted that since the NOIR contains 
unsupported statements and he has not been advised of the derogatory evidence, "revocation of the 
visa petition cannot be sustained." Further, he provided documentation that "explained and rebutted 
any potential allegation of fraud based on his work experience since it was noted directly on his I-20 
and has also provided evidence through W-2 forms." 
The Petitioner also submitted "supplemental evidence showing that he satisfies at lease three of the 
ten criteria," including evidence of serving as a book editor, a Google Scholar Profile now showing 
453 total citations to his published work, evidence of two granted and three pending patents, and 
additional peer-reviewed abstracts in scholarly publications. Moreover, the Petitioner provided 
documentation in support of his claim to meet two additional criteria, relating to leading or critical 
role and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
In revoking the petition's approval, the Director stated: 
On March 22, 2023, [USCIS] issued a Notice oflntent to Revoke[] the approval of the 
Form I-140 petition to the petitoner. 
In view of the above, USCIS has revoked the approval of this Form I-140 petition. 
4 
If, upon reconsideration, the approval previously granted is revoked, the director shall provide the 
petitioner or the self-petitioner with a written notification of the decision that explains the specific 
reasons for revocation. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(c). Because the Director did not properly revoke the 
approved petition, we will remand the matter for the following reasons. 
In the NOIR, the Director referenced "fraudulent documents," however, the Director did not 
specifically identify the documents. Moreover, although the NOIR mentioned the initial evidence 
requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3), the Director did not discuss why the Petitioner did not 
fulfill at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. Instead, the Director generally stated the Petitioner 
"did not establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative element to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit." Here, the Director did not provide the Petitioner sufficient information that specifically 
explained the proposed grounds for revocation. 
In the revocation, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of documentation and 
did not explain why the evidence did not overcome the grounds in the NOIR. In addition, the Director 
did not address the Petitioner's arguments made in response to the NOTR. Moreover, while she 
indicated the fraudulent documents called into question the Petitioner's satisfaction of at least three of 
the ten regulatory criteria, the Director did not further elaborate and conduct an analysis of these 
criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Director did not properly revoke the approved petition. The NOIR and notice of revocation lack 
adequate factual support for the Director's determination that the Petitioner submitted fraudulent 
documents to establish eligibility for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. The NOTR 
did not provide the Petitioner with sufficient notice and explanation of any specific facts that raised 
concerns regarding the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. Additionally, the final 
revocation notice did not address the rebuttal claims and evidence the Petitioner provided. Further, 
Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and explanation why the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate he satisfied these initial evidence requirements. We will therefore remand the matter to 
the Director to issue a new NOIR, covering these issues and also considering the additional arguments 
on appeal. Any future NOIR must include "a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the 
proposed action, but also of the supporting evidence." Estime, 19 T&N Dec. at 451. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 14, 2023 In Re: 28946956 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public prosecutor and specialist in institutional policy and technology innovation, 
seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material m certain media, and 
commercial successes). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner is a lawyer who completed his graduate legal education at I ~ where he 
earned his master of laws (LLM) and doctor of juridical science (SJD) degrees. The 
public I record reflects 
that he has spent 
I, most of his professional career as a prosecutor within the II where he has led several innovation initiatives. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he was required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles in the field, and performed in a leading or 
critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record which establishes that he meets additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 
otherwise qualifies under the high standards of this immigrant visa classification. He farther contends 
the Director did not adhere to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, did not 
adequately explain why the submitted evidence was deemed insufficient to meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (v), and did not consider the totality of the evidence in the record when 
conducting the final merits analysis. We agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final 
merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the 
evidence provided in support of the petition. Further, as emphasized by the Petitioner on appeal, it is 
unclear whether or to what extent the Director considered the Petitioner's detailed response to a request 
for evidence, as that evidence is not referenced in the decision. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to six of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to three of the 
criteria, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did 
2 
not meaningfully address the evidence relating to the Petitioner's awards, published materials about 
him, and contributions to his field and whether that evidence, individually or collectively, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. All evidence must be considered in a final merits determination 
as some evidence is more persuasive when viewed together with other evidence. 
Because the Director did not properly consider all the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, 
the decision did not sufficiently address why he did not demonstrate his eligibility for the requested 
classification. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
( stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should evaluate all the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on 
appeal). Here, because the decision was based on an incomplete review of the record, the Petitioner 
was not provided with a sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial as a basis for his appeal. 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should review the Petitioner's appeal, 
which includes claims that the Director overlooked evidence that established his eligibility under the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (v), and additional evidence relating to these criteria. 
Further, as the Director has already determined that the Petitioner met at least three criteria, they should 
evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should include a final 
merits analysis of the totality of the record, including the evidence submitted in support of all claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and any other potentially relevant evidence. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 14, 2023 In Re: 27007829 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three often initial evidentiary criteria, and that he will 
continue to work in his claimed area of expertise in the United States, as required. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen of Kazakhstan, claims to be a singer and composer, who has 
authored musical albums, won awards, and performed at international venues. He entered the United 
States in June 2021 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
A. Willful Misrepresentation of Material Facts 
Before we discuss the merits of the appeal and the underlying petition, we begin with a finding that the 
Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in this proceeding. 
Misrepresentation ofa material fact may lead to multiple consequences in immigration proceedings. Any 
noncitizen who, by fraud or willfully misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to 
procure or has procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other benefit 
provided under the Act is inadmissible. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i). 
Under Board oflmmigration Appeals precedent, a material misrepresentation is one which "tends to shut 
off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which might well have resulted in a 
proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofS-and B-C-, 9 I&N Dec. 436, 447 (BIA 1961). 
A willful misrepresentation requires that the individual knowingly make a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. 
Sergueeva v. Holder, 324 Fed. Appx. 76 (2d Cir. 2009) (citing Matter ofKai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 
288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). Material misrepresentation requires only a false statement that is material and 
willfully made. See 9 FAM 40.63 N2; see also Matter of Tijam, 22 I&N Dec. 408, 424 (BIA 1998) 
(en bane) (Rosenberg, concurring). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as 
2 
distinguished from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See 
Matter ofHealy and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). 
As evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards under the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), he initially submitted cell phone 
pictures of himself holding what appears to be a certificate of an award given to him in New York for 
best composer. The Director questioned the authenticity of this award since the record lacked 
information about the award and the awarding organization. Furthermore, the cell phone picture 
appeared staged and included the caption "first time in New York." This gave the impression that this 
was a pictured staged while the Petitioner was on vacation in the U.S. (per his non-immigrant Bl/B2 
visa). 
Similarly, the Petitioner also submitted pictures of himself holding other award certificates or 
statuettes, yet these photos displayed documents written in a foreign language (un-translated) and/or 
illegible text. The record was not supported by information about these awards and the organizations 
that bestowed them to him. 
The Director issued a notice ofhis intention to deny the petition (NOID) which discussed his concerns 
with this evidence and requested more information about these awards, such as information about the 
organizations that bestowed these awards to the Petitioner, documentation from the awarding 
organizations establishing his receipt of these awards, major media articles about the awarding events, 
and major media articles establishing that these are prestigious awards or prizes recognizing musicians 
or singers. In the NOID, the Director also requested that the Petitioner submit high resolution color 
photos of the front and back of the actual award (not pictures of a cell phone screen). While the 
Petitioner provided a respond to the NOID, he did not provide the requested evidence about these 
awards. "Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be 
grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
The Director denied the petition, in part, because the Petitioner submitted evidence that appeared to 
be fabricated in order to establish that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. We issued 
our own NOID in November 2023 taking note of the irregularities in the evidence provided by the 
Petitioner in the record before the Director and gave the Petitioner another opportunity to provide 
evidence to rebut this information. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). While the Petitioner responded to our 
NOID, he did not provide a narrative explanation, supported by probative evidence to overcome our 
concerns that the evidence provided about the Petitioner's awards was fabricated. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). The information in the falsified awards is material to the petition 
because it relates to eligibility for the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Additionally, the Director denied the petition because the Petitioner did not submit clear evidence that 
he was coming to the United States to continue working in his claimed area of expertise, such as 
prearranged commitments and a statement detailing his plans to establish how he will continue to work 
in his profession in the U.S., as required by 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). The Director noted in the denial that 
he had requested documentary evidence establishing such in the NOID but the Petitioner was not 
responsive to his request. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
3 
In our NOID we noted that the Petitioner provided evidence on appeal to address this deficiency inl 
the record. Specifically, he offered promotional material about a film production entitled '10,"(G-T-) which suggested that American film producer! l(Mr. F-) is producing 
this film. The material highlights that Mr. F was the producer of the I I films. We 
observed that the Petitioner filed this appeal in February 2023 and provided evidence about this film 
project at that time, including promotional material for this film, an executed January 2023 "composer 
agreement" between the Petitioner and I I (Mr. Z-) requiring the Petitioner to compose 
the musical score for G-T-, and an executed January 2023 "composer-singer deal term sheet" between 
the Petitioner and Mr. Z-s' production company,! lwhich requires a payment of 
$50,000 to the Petitioner and compensation to him for certain travel expenses so that he can complete 
this work. The contractual documents indicated that the Petitioner will be paid $10,000 either upon 
the signing of these agreements or when he starts work on the musical score. $25,000 would be paid 
to him when recording of the score commenced, followed by $15,000 when his services were 
complete. The agreements called for final recording services for the musical score to start on 
November, 1, 2023 and conclude on December 3, 2023. 
We noted that Mr. F-passed away in November 2022, months prior to the Petitioner's submission of 
material about this film project in support of the appeal. See Mike Barnes, [Mr. F-J,I I 
The Hollywood Reporter (November 21, 2022), 
https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-news ._____________ ___,I I According to this article, Mr. F-passed away the day before the article was 
published. The article displays a picture of Mr. F-captioned as being provided by Mr. F-'s widow to 
the Hollywood Reporter. Notably this picture is also displayed in the film's promotional material that 
the Petitioner submitted in support of the appeal. 
In our NOID we explained that the submission of this material -which states that Mr. F-is to produce 
the G-T-film months after he passed away -raises questions about the credibility of the Petitioner's 
documentation. Based on our review ofthe record it appeared that this evidence was fabricated by the 
Petitioner to establish that he had prearranged commitments to provide services in his field of 
endeavor. We informed the Petitioner that he must resolve this inconsistency and ambiguity in the 
record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). We notified the Petitioner that based in part on this derogatory 
information, we intended to dismiss the appeal, and we gave him an opportunity to submit additional 
evidence to rebut this information. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i). 
We asked the Petitioner to provide affidavits from the G-T-film's other producers listed in the 
promotional materials, (Mr. A-and Mr. Z-), in which they were to: (1) describe the nature of the 
Petitioner's involvement in the G-T-film project, (2) address their plans for producing this film 
without Mr. F-, (3) give the current status of the film project, and (4) provide copies of current 
promotional material for the film. Additionally, we asked for documentary evidence of the $10,000 
that was to be paid to the Petitioner per the submitted composer agreements on or about January 2023, 
including a copy of his bank statements and other documents to show his receipt of these funds and 
their source. We noted the composer agreements indicated that the Petitioner will be responsible for 
costs incurred to develop and deliver the film's musical score, including the costs to obtain musicians, 
studio time, mixing, tape and other materials. We asked for a listing of the costs that the Petitioner 
has incurred to date under this agreement, documentary evidence of his payment of those costs, and 
4 
copies of his executed contracts with others, such as the music studios and musicians needed to 
complete the work. In response to the NOID, the Petitioner provided a statement describing the current 
status of the G-T-film project, as follows: 
In the film industry, there are various types of producers, each with distinct roles. Some 
focus solely on development, others on post-production, while some oversee all stages 
of production. [Mr. F-'s] involvement in a project often resulted in a successfully 
packaged film, uniquely positioned for optimal distribution. . . . At the time of his 
passing, [Fr. F-] had eight projects in development. His name remains attached to each 
ofthese, and they are set to be released posthumously. His family will receive royalties, 
as these films will still be recognized as '[Mr. F-] pictures."' 
While the Petitioner asserts that the G-T-project is proceeding without Mr. F-he did not provide 
contemporaneous, documentary evidence to show that G-T-is an ongoing film production. We 
specifically, asked for updated materials about the development of the G-T film, including affidavits 
from the other film producers who are overseeing the creation of the film discussing the Petitioner's 
involvement in this project, documentation of the remittance of payment to the Petitioner for 
composing the musical score for the film and evidence of his payment of project expenses in 
accordance with his submitted "composer agreement" with Mr. Z-, and current promotional materials 
for G-T-. However, the Petitioner has not provided documentary evidence to support his assertions 
that G-T-is currently in film production, and that he is engaged as a composer to produce the musical 
score for G-T -, as asserted on appeal. 
It is the petitioner's responsibility and burden to resolve any inconsistencies in the record with 
independent objective evidence and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies will not sufiice 
without competent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 582. The Petitioner's response to the NOID does not meet this standard. We conclude, therefore, 
that the material presented about the G-T-film project, including the G-T-promotional materials, power 
point presentation, composer agreement, and the composer-singer deal term sheet, were falsified in order 
to support the Petitioner's fraudulent claims on appeal. The information in the falsified G-T­
documentation is material to the petition because it was submitted to establish how the Petitioner will 
continue to work in his profession in the U.S. as required by 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in seeking to 
procure a benefit under the Act. Our finding may render him inadmissible in future proceedings where 
admissibility is an issue. For efficiency's sake, we incorporate the above discussion and analysis 
regarding this derogatory information into each of the bases in this decision for dismissing the appeal. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director reviewed the evidence offered initially and in response to his NOID and determined 
that while the Petitioner provided evidence to meet five of the criteria, awards (i), membership (ii), 
published material (iii),judging (iv), and contributions ofmajor significance (v), he did not meet any 
5 
of them. In the denial, the Director provided a detailed analysis and explanation addressing these 
criteria individually and explained why the evidence provided was insufficient to satisfy them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally discusses his career accomplishments, claiming without 
supporting probative evidence that he is "the author of 300 works that make a great contribution to the 
development of music and creativity in the Republic of Kazahstan," has received awards, and has 
performed internationally in countries such as France, Germany, and Malaysia. However, the 
Petitioner does not directly address this critical aspect of the Director's decision -i.e., he fails to 
identify a specific error in the Director's decision when he determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the means to remedy what they 
perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a previous proceeding. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). By presenting only generalized statements of eligibility without explaining 
the specific aspects of the Director's decision they consider to be incorrect, the Petitioner has failed to 
identify the basis for contesting this requirement on appeal. Since the Petitioner did not address this 
issue with specificity on appeal, we deem the issue waived and affirm the Director's conclusion that 
the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and 
finding when a filing party mentions an issue without developing an argument, the issue is deemed 
waived). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
probative documentation that meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
C. Coming to Work in the Field of Expertise 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires "clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United 
States to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." 
The Petitioner initially stated in Part 6 of the petition that he plans "to open my own production 
company. Multiply my achievements in the art. Produce songs [a]s an artist, director." In his NOID, 
the Director observed that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence of prearranged 
commitments or offer statements detailing his prospective plans to continue to work in his field. The 
Director asked for documentary evidence establishing such. In response, the Petitioner offered a new 
plan, indicating that he intends to "open an [ a ]rt [ s ]chool for Kazakh children. To study national songs, 
national cultural lyrics, national cultural art support center. Also, as a singer/people's artist I'm usually 
invited to charity concerts, events, celebrations to perform..." 
6 
I The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence 
of prearranged commitments or otherwise sufficiently detail his work prospective work plans to meet 
the "clear evidence" requirements at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On appeal, the Petitioner newly asserts that he is organizing "a [ musical] tour called I~-----~ 
I which will feature his music during live performances in the United States and in Europe. 
We acknowledged his plans in our NOID and asked the Petitioner to provide documentary evidence 
to illustrate the steps he has taken to organize this tour, including its source of fonding, tour itinerary, 
and the contracts that he has executed with production companies to support his tour operations in the 
U.S. and abroad. In his December 2023 response to the NOID, the Petitioner avers: 
Regarding my musical tour call '~--------~" in the United States and 
European countries: Everything remains in effect, but due to the pandemic, many 
preliminary agreements have been postponed for unknown period including on my 
initiative. Since in order to perform this tour, I need to be able to travel from [the 
United States to Europe] and be able to return to the United States. I was waiting for 
my permits/documents and relied on this factor to plan the tour with exact dates, 
countries, cities. 
Notably, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to show that his ability to travel within the United 
States and abroad is being prospectively curtailed by domestic and international travel restrictions 
related to the eovid-19 pandemic. Further, users records reflect that the Petitioner received 
authorization to work in the United States in September 2022 (months prior to filing the appeal) and 
this authorization continues through September 2024. Therefore, he has been authorized to be 
employed as a touring concert performer in the United States for well over a year, should such an 
opportunity arise. users also issued a travel document to him in February 2023 to facilitate his travel 
abroad; thus, he has been free to travel abroad and then return to the United States since that time. 
Therefore, we find the Petitioner's assertions that pandemic travel restrictions and the unavailability 
ofwork and travel permits have delayed his ability to plan and execute his concert tour to be incredible. 
Without supporting evidence to the contrary, it appears that the Petitioner may have offered fictitious 
plans to organize an international 'l I" musical tour as a sham attempt on appeal 
to meet the evidentiary requirements at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Matter ofHo, supra. 
Here, the Petitioner initially stated that he intended to start his own musical production company, later 
he claimed that he will instead open a children's art school. On appeal, he asserts that he is planning 
to embark on a musical tour to perform across the United States and in Europe but did not provide 
probative evidence to support his assertions. He also submitted falsified documents claiming to be 
employed as a musical composer for the G-T-film production. We conclude that the Petitioner's far­
flung assertions about his future plans to continue to work in his claimed area of expertise are not 
supported by probative, documentary evidence sufficient to meet the "clear evidence" requirement at 
8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
A petition can only be properly approved upon a determination that the facts stated in the petition are true. 
See section 204(b) ofthe Act, 8 U.S.e. § l 154(b). Though requested in the Director's NOID and in our 
own NOID, the above inconsistencies, discrepancies, and contradictory statements have not been 
resolved by the submission of independent, objective evidence, and diminish the reliability of the 
7 
Petitioner's claim that he is coming to the United States to work as a singer and composer. A mere 
explanation is not the independent objective evidence contemplated by Matter ofHo, and we find the 
Petitioner's offered explanations unpersuasive. The record does not contain clear evidence that the 
Petitioner will continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability and will 
continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. The appeal will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the 
decision. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
We also find that the Petitioner has willfully misrepresented material facts directly relating to the 
immigration benefits sought in this petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC 19, 2023 In Re: 29045946 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a craftsperson, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has exhibited her artwork in Uzbekistan, Russia, and Spain. Because she has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to all of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and concluded she satisfied only one criterion. 
Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met her burden to demonstrate display under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As indicated above, the Petitioner has exhibited her work at artistic 
exhibitions and showcases. Accordingly, we concur with the Director's finding for the display 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also provided evidence of her membership in associations 
sufficient to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 For the reasons discussed below, we find 
that the documentation does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on membership with the Artists Trade 
Union of Russia (ATUR) and the Eurasian Art Union (EAU) (also referred to in the record as the 
Professional Union of Artists of Russia). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that she had not established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv). (v), (vi), (viii), (ix) or (x). Therefore, we consider these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of 
R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision. that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). 
citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 
WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
2 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.2 The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that 
outstanding achievements are required for membership in those organizations, or that they rely on 
recognized national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
Pertaining to A TUR, within her initial submission, the Petitioner provided her A TUR membership 
card and membership certificate, both dated July 1, 2021. She also submitted two certificates dated 
July 24, 2021, from the chairman of ATUR, certifying, respectively, that ATUR included her in the 
United Register of the Professional Artists and its Rating Centre gave her "the Rating category 6-B ( a 
professional artist)." 
Within her response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted the ATUR statute, 
which indicates: 
3.1. Professional painters, graphic artists, sculptors, masters of decorative and applied 
arts, photo artists, designers, architects, art historians, gallery and museum workers, 
journalists, other persons associated with professional interests in the field of culture 
and art, who have reached the age of 18, can be members of the Trade Union, sharing 
the goals of the Trade Union, recognizing the charter of the Trade Union and taking a 
personal part in the work of the Trade Union. 
3.2. Membership in the Trade Union is voluntary. Individuals are accepted as members 
of the Trade Union on the basis of a personal appeal in writing. 
It is evident that inclusion in the United Register of the Professional Artists and receipt of the rating 
category 6-B (professional artist) are not a condition for membership; the Petitioner obtained them 
after her ATUR membership occurred. Absent evidence to the contrary, it appears that membership 
in the organization is held by artists who have reached the age of 18 and who have submitted a written 
application. Thus, the documentation submitted does not show that A TUR requires outstanding 
achievements of those accepted for admission, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the field. 
Regarding EAU, the Petitioner initially provided her membership card dated December 21, 2021. 
However, an additional form related to the Petitioner's EAU membership indicates her "date of entry" 
to be December 21, 2020. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). In addition, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As the Petitioner filed her petition in November 2021, and as she has not 
submitted verifiable and consistent evidence ofthe date her membership in EAU occurred, she did not 
demonstrate sufficiently that her membership with EAU occurred prior to or at the time of her initial 
filing. 
2 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner also submitted the statute of the EAU, which states as 
follows: 
4.1. The following persons can be members of the Organization: Citizens of the 
Russian Federation, foreign citizens and stateless persons legally staying in the Russian 
Federation who have reached the age of 18, except in cases established by international 
treaties of the Russian Federation or federal laws and being professional and amateur 
artists, designers, photographers, art historians, artisans who have created original 
works of independent creative significance, as well as artists and individuals who have 
made a significant contribution to culture and art, who have widely recognized 
outstanding achievements and who promote folk arts, acknowledging and 
implementing this Statue. 
4.2. Admission to membership is performed by the EAU' s Presidium on the basis of a 
personal written application of the candidate with the presentation of his creative 
works, recommendations from three members of the EAU, the decision of the 
governing body of the creative section and other documents specified in the 
"Regulations on the Procedure for Admission and Exclusion from the EAU." 
4.3. Decisions of admission to EAU's membership are taken by a simple majority of 
votes of the members of the EAU's Presidium participating in the meeting. 
The EAU statute does not define the terms "works ofindependent creative significance" or "significant 
contribution to culture and art." Although the EAU statute uses the regulatory term "outstanding 
achievements," it does not contain detailed, specific information defining what constitutes outstanding 
achievements. Reviewed in its totality, the evidence does not demonstrate that membership in EAU 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
Petitioner's field or discipline. First, the Petitioner has not shown that EAU's requirement that 
prospective members provide evidence of "works of independent creative significance" or 
"significant contribution to culture and art" is tantamount to imposing an "outstanding achievement" 
requirement for membership. The statute does not indicate which factors are considered in 
establishing outstanding achievement in the membership process, or otherwise indicate the process by 
which prospective members are evaluated. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership. 3 As indicated above, the EAU statute reflects the 
organization's Presidium votes for membership. The Petitioner did not provide information about the 
Presidium members showing that they qualify as recognized national or international experts. 4 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Fmther, we note that the record contains a second '·Reply to a Request for Additional Evidence," dated after the Director's 
denial decision, in which the Petitioner provided additional materials, including under this criterion information regarding 
EAU members; EAU meeting minutes concerning membership, the board of trustees, and regional representative offices; 
information from the ATUR website on how to become a member; and information about the reference book United Art 
Rating describing the artist rating system. The Director acknowledged but did not consider these materials as they were 
received after the issuance of denial decision. As the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to 
4 
For these reasons, we agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not establish that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of her work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
provide this evidence we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.2(6)(11) (requiring all 
requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate 
the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 
1988). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2023 In Re: 28802801 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish her 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability and that the Director erred in the review of the 
information sent. 1 Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in 
this case because the Director's decision is insufficient for review. 
With the initial petition, the Petitioner claimed and submitted evidence to satisfy the criteria listed 
below: 
• Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii); and 
• Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed and submitted 
evidence in support of the following additional criteria: 
• Evidence of the individual's original business-related contributions of major significance in 
the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
• Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
1 The Petitioner also claims for the first time that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) regarding authorship 
of scholarly articles in the field. We note the Director's RFE advised her of what type of evidence she could submit in 
support of this criterion. The Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding to the RFE. Where a petitioner has 
been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency. we will 
not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
2 
The Director's decision, however, only addressed the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and stated 
that "[t]he petitioner did not submit evidence for" the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
-(x). An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
did not adequately address the evidence submitted with the petition or in response to the RFE, we will 
remand the matter. 
The Director should consider all the evidence submitted in support of the claimed criteria and 
specifically address its deficiencies and inconsistencies. For example, regarding the membership 
criterion, the December 2022 letter from the president of the Chamber of Shopping Centers of Chile 
"certif1 ies] the participation of the Petitioner as an integral part ofthe Chamber of Shopping Centers 
through the company ,________ ___, ( emphasis added). However, the April 2023 letter, 
submitted on appeal, "certi ies that the Petitioner] is a member ofthe Chilean Chamber of Shopping 
Centers, representing~-------~ (emphasis added). According to Article One of the 
Constitutive Assembly of the Chilean Chamber of Shopping Centers A.G. of August 2008, they are a 
trade association of shopping centers. Article Five explains that there are "two categories ofmembers, 
A and B." Category A members "own or operate" at least one shopping center and supervise and 
coordinate the operation according to a set of internal uniform rules. Category B members are "linked 
to category A members and ... act or participate in the commercial activity of the Shopping Centers 
in a capacity other than that of owners or operators." Article Ten states that if a member is a legal 
entity, it "must designate their representative before the association." The Director should determine 
whether the Petitioner has established that she is a member of the trade association pursuant to Article 
Five, rather than a representative pursuant to Article Ten. It is the Petitioner's burden to resolve these 
discrepancies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Further, we note that the record does not show 
that either Category A or B membership in the trade association requires outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. 
If the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, the Director should evaluate whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim, that she is one ofthe small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 21, 2023 In Re: 28785726 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petlt10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims "national and international champion titles" in several styles of Wushu, or 
Chinese martial arts. The Petitioner has taught martial arts and "Traditional Chinese ;ealthl 
Preservation Techni ues" at China since 2007. He "also holds the position o 
" The Petitioner asserts that he has trained ~---------------------~ law enforcement officers, published books about Wushu, and served as a judge at international 
championship competitions. 
The Petitioner claimed to have received a major, internationally recognized award, and to have 
satisfied six ofthe alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had met two of the alternate criteria, pertaining to 
participation as a judge and authorship of scholarly articles, but that the Petitioner had not met the 
other claimed criteria or established that he had received a major, internationally recognized award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria pertaining to lesser prizes and membership 
in associations. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's other conclusions regarding major 
prizes, published material, and original contributions, and therefore has waived appeal on those 
issues. 1 
We will discuss the two disputed criteria below. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field o_f'endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The Petitioner submitted copies ofcertificates indicating that he won first place at seven competitions: 
• 70 kg Men's Group A, 2000; .........~------------------ ............. • 70 kg Men's Group, 2005· 
• IMen's Youth Group Traditional Yang Style Tai Chi Quan, 2006 lChina;2 ~-------~ 
• Men's Traditional Yang Style Tai Chi Quan, 2013I I China; and ~-----------~ 
• Three events for males aged 26-55 at the 2017 ~------------------~ o Other Chen Style Taiji Quan; 
o Xingyi, Bagua, Baji, Fanzi; and 
o Other Traditional Hand Forms. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that some ofthe named events drew from national or 
international pools ofcompetitors, but the Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that 
his "awards had a substantial level of recognition." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the competitions in China "were held under the auspice[s] of ... 
China's official national government agency of all sports." The regulat01y language requires that the 
prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized. The reputation of the organization holding 
a given competition does not necessarily establish that a given prize or award from that competition is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 3 In this respect, it is significant that the Petitioner has submitted 
background information regarding some ofthe awarding entities, but he has not submitted evidence about 
awards from the competitions. For example, he did not show that the media, or even the organizations 
themselves, reported or announced the results ofthe competitions in which he participated.4 The evidence 
submitted does not establish recognition ofthe awards named on the Petitioner's certificates. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof with regard to this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record contains information about the Petitioner's memberships in various organizations, but on 
appeal, the Petitioner only discusses his membership on theI I 
I 1-Therefore, the Petitioner has waived appeal on the Director's determinations 
regarding the other claimed memberships. 
2 The Petitioner did not document the age range for the "Youth Group." The Petitioner was 29 years old when the 
competition took place in 2006. 
3 The regulation specifically requires national or international recognition ofthe prize or award; the reputation ofthe awarding 
entity does not suffice. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges this distinction, indicating that "[c]ertain awards from well­
known national institutions" "may" qualify under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See generally G USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1 ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
4 National or international media coverage is one possible measure of the national or international recognition of a prize 
or award. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B )( 1 ). 
3 
When he filed the petition in December 2021, the Petitioner claimed to be a member ofthe0,but did 
not claim to hold any position within ~ciation, nor did he claim to be seeking such a position. A 
translated membership card from the L_J indicates that the Petitioner registered as a member in 
December 2004. The document does not discuss membership requirements or describe the process by 
which the Petitioner became a member of thel I 
The Director requested additional evidence about the Petitioner's memberships, including governing 
documents to show membership requirements and establish the admission process. 
In response, the Petitio~itted a translated copy of a Certificate ofAppo.intmen.t, naming him to a 
four-year term on the l__JAdvisory Committee beginning December 24, 2021, a week before the 
petition's filing date. An accompanying "Member Qualification Evaluation Letter" indicates that the 
Petitioner's "outstanding contributions to Wushu" qualified him for appointment to the Committee. 
In denying the petition, the Director cited several reasons why the Certificate of Appointment and 
accompanying materials lacked probative value. The record does not support all of these grounds. For 
example, the Director stated that the translated documents lacked a translation certification as required by 
8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(14 ), but the required certification is in the record. But one of the Director's key 
conclusions is on a stronger footing. 
A translated web printout identified as including excerpts from the I Iconstitution indicates that 
individuals "who have made outstanding contributions to and international influence . . . may apply 
directly to the~to become members of the Advisory Committee." The Director correctly observed 
that the submitted printout does not identify the web address ofthe document to permit verification ofthe 
claimed contents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the printout is "from the.__ ____________ ~official 
website:'--------~·" Statements in an appellate brief are not evidence and thus are not entitled 
to any evidentiary weight.I See Mitter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). The stated address is 
for the home page of the website, rather than its constitution specifically. The I Iweb 
address appears on a separate letter, but not on the printout showing the constitution itself or its translation. 
Furthermore, although the translated web printout includes part of a document identified as the ~I-~ 
constitution the to of the a e bears the insi nia and the name, in both Chinese and English, of the 
------------------~· A banner near the top of the page also identifies the 
This information indicates that the document appeared 
on._____.website, rather than the.__ _ __.website. The burden of proof is on the Petitioner, and the 
Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that the constitution appears on thel 
website as claimed, or that the printout in the record matches the document on th~ I website. 
An immigrant petition may be approved after an investigation of the facts in each case, and after a 
dete1mination that the facts stated in the petition are ttue. Section 204(b) ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1154(b). 
Evidence submitted without a means of verification hampers the ability to investigate the facts and 
determine that the facts claimed in the petition are true. Here, the Petitioner did not provide a specific 
address for the document submitted, and did not establish that thel I constitution appears at the 
address shown on the separate letter. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established the authenticity and 
4 I 
accuracy ofthe document presented as part ofthd !constitution. Therefore, the evidence submitted 
does not meet the Petitioner's burden of proof to establish that his membership on theD Advisory 
Committee constitutes membership in an association that requires outstanding achievements as required 
by 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work at a level that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Furthermore, we note that the Petitioner seeks to work in the United States not as a competitive athlete 
but as an instructor. From the limited evidence submitted, the most significant competition documented 
in the record took place in 2013, more than eight years before the Petitioner filed the petition in late 2021. 
In such circumstances, we may place greater weight on the non-competitive activities that the individual 
has pursued. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2). 
The Petitioner has written articles in scholarly journals and published books for a wider audience, but the 
record does not establish that these publications have had an impact that would show sustained national 
or international acclaim. Much of the Petitioner's work documented in the record is at the provincial 
level, and the Petitioner's information about the large population of Shandong Province does not address 
the statutory requirement for recognition and sustained acclaim at a national or international level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 29, 2023 In Re: 28964376 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and cybersecurity professional, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen' s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner avers the Beneficiary is a business leader with experience in the fields of business and 
science, specifically in the field of cyber security. It discussed the specific niche occupied by the 
Beneficiary within these two realms as follows in its response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE): 
[The Beneficiary] is a prolific writer and speaker on the topic of cybersecurity for 
business. His work in this area encompasses several facets of the field: Developing 
strategies for chief information security officers (CISO) and other IT and cyber­
responsible parties on how to set up their business IT systems to be the most protected 
from cyber threats; identifying and translating the techniques used by hackers to that 
CISOs and others can be better able to anticipate and react, as well as prevent 
cyberattacks. His work in the field spans both the categories of science and business, 
therefore we are requesting that he be classified as a person of extraordinary ability in 
this hybrid field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary can satisfy the following 
criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner only submitted evidence sufficient 
to establish that the Beneficiary met the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to authorship. 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the referenced criteria not met were conclusory and did not adequately address the collective entirety 
of the Petitioner's claims or evidence. 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and foll explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for farther review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
While the Director may not ultimately discuss each and every document in the record in their decision, 
they should collectively consider and review each one in determining whether the Beneficiary is 
eligible for the benefit sought in this petition. With respect to the standard of proof in this matter, a 
petitioner must establish that the beneficiary meets each eligibility requirement of the benefit sought 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. In other words, a 
petitioner must show that what it claims is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. users examines 
"each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within 
the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." 
Additionally, to determine whether a petitioner has met its burden under the preponderance standard, 
users considers not only the quantity, but also the quality (including relevance, probative value, and 
credibility) of the evidence. Id. at 376; Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (eomm'r 1989). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the criterion at 8 e.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary's receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary could meet this criterion based on his receipt of 
several awards, including the awards he received from the.__ ______ __,:, which are evidenced 
in the record, as well as a letter from the founder of this organization who described the criteria for 
several of the awards recently garnered by the Beneficiary from this organization. For instance, the 
founder discusses the significance of the Beneficiary's Iwhich the Beneficiary won 
out of pool of 2000 nominated candidates including representatives of forty countries. Of these 
nominees, 20 cybersecurity professionals were selected for the award. The founder farther notes that 
this award "recognizes those who have made important and helpful contributions to the realm of 
cybersecurity, of which [the Beneficiary] is certainly one." 
In the denial, the Director generally indicates among other things that the Beneficiary's awards "appear 
to be local or regional in nature, and it has not been established that the prizes or awards were given 
for excellence in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. ..." While the Director lists some of the awards 
3 
garnered by the Beneficiary in the denial, they do not discuss the specific evidence submitted by the 
Petitioner in support of this claim. As the matter will be remanded, the Director is instructed to re­
examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying 
letters and other evidence such as media articles and information from the awarding institutions' 
websites explaining how the evidence supports the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted 
no less than 20 published articles about the Beneficiary and his work in the field of endeavor. The 
Director's decision does not specifically reference any of these articles and their analysis consists of a 
conclusory statement that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence regarding the circulation of the 
publications. However, the record indicates the Petitioner's submission of documentation in support 
of its claim that one or more of the submitted articles was published in a major trade publication or 
other major media. Therefore, the decision reflects an incomplete review of the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. On remand, the Director should review the record to determine whether 
the Beneficiary met this criterion at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not sufficiently address the evidence it submitted and summarily concludes that the 
"Petitioner failed to demonstrate how [the Beneficiary's] contributions amounted to original work and 
how his work impacted the field as a whole in a major and significant way." We agree with the 
Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern based on the Director's decision what specific 
evidence was considered in reaching this determination. The Director acknowledged in the denial that 
the Beneficiary has authored books on cybersecurity issues, submitted independent reviews of those 
books, as well as reference and testimonial letters about their significance, and that he contributed to 
the creation of an exam blueprint for the certification of cybersecurity professionals. As the decision 
only vaguely explains that the Petitioner has not met its burden to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility 
in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically discussing the collective evidence in the record, 
the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and evidence when evaluating this criterion on 
remand. 
Also, based on our de novo review on appeal, we observe that the Petitioner has discussed and 
submitted documentation regarding the "leading or critical roles" that the Beneficiary has performed 
for major corporations and other institutions that employed him during his 20-year career as a cyber 
security professional. The record contains evidence which suggests that the Beneficiary may also 
meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his tenure in roles, such as CISO, managing 
director, cyber security architect, and vice president of various institutions. 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of an organization or establishment that enjoys a 
"distinguished reputation." Id. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary 
has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or 
department of an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
4 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of such 
a division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. On remand, the Director may decide to evaluate the 
evidence of record to determine if the Beneficiary meets this criterion as well. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) which addresses the 
submission of "comparable evidence," if it is determined that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do 
not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses 
comparable evidence and allows a petitioner the opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish 
his or her eligibility, if USCIS determines that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's 
occupation. See id. A petitioner should explain why it has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three ofthe criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence it has included is 
"comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See id. Here, the Petitioner does not show 
that the standard criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. On appeal, it asks us to 
consider the applicability of the Beneficiary's published works under the authorship criterion located at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) -which the Director determined the Beneficiary satisfied, outright. As 
discussed, it also maintains throughout this proceeding that the Beneficiary satisfies several other criteria. 
We conclude the Petitioner has not adequately explained its contention that the comparable evidence 
clause applies in this matter. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If after review the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for farther review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review 
that the Beneficiary meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final 
merits analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary possesses the requisite sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24527997 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Petitioner is pursuing a career in mixed martial arts. Although the Petitioner signed a contract 
with regional organizations in the New Jersey and New York area, the record does not reflect that he 
competes at a professional level. He states his goal is to participate in the 2028 Summer Olympics . 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner did not clearly indicate under which 
regulatory criteria he was applying. The Director decided which criteria it appeared the Petitioner was 
applying under, and issued a request for evidence (RFE) relating to those categories of evidence, then 
ultimately determined he did not satisfy the following criteria in the final decision: prizes or awards; 
membership; and leading or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains they meet the regulation's requirements relating to each of the 
criteria the Director denied, but he also alludes to his eligibility under judging, original contributions , 
and commercial success in the performing arts. Within the Director's RFE, they discussed the 
Petitioner's claims and in response , he did not address any of the new criteria he claims on appeal. 
Within the appellate brief is the first instance that the Petitioner articulated his eligibility under these 
criteria. As the Director could not have committed an error in law or an error in fact as it relates to 
these additional criteria, we will not consider those claims for the first time on appeal. See Matter of 
Izaguirre, 27 I&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017) (citing Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988)). Nevertheless, the Petitioner may pursue these claims within a new petition filing. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's ultimate determination. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner's sole claimed membership is on the I !national team. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
claims the Director ignored information within his evidence from I which is the official 
website of International! We note the Director discussed this entity within the denial 
decision and the Petitioner does not explain what aspect of this material the Director failed to consider. 
Relating to the Petitioner's overall claims under this criterion, he states thel lteam is 
ranked high among its world competitors, he notes some of the evidence he provided about the team 
originated from leading websites in the country of I I and in both his RFE response and on 
appeal he indicates the team has no written requirements nor code for membership. 
Although many athletes who are members of a national team may qualify under this criterion, they 
must submit sufficient evidence of the selection process to establish that outstanding achievements are 
required (e.g., meeting a certain cutoff time or score, or advancing through qualification rounds). 
However, the record provides no insight on the selection process for this national team. While this 
type of membership may, depending on the evidence presented in an individual case, meet the 
requirements of this criterion, it is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he meets every element of 
a given regulatory provision. We will not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields or disciplines. Because this Petitioner has not done so here, we conclude that he 
has not met this regulatory requirement. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets three criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any single criterion, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of criteria and it is 
unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our 
evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it 
unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the 
2 
appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23376211 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a I I designer who has recently worked and exhibited her collections in 
Florida. She has submitted evidence of her work both in Venezuela and in the United States. 
The Petitioner intends to continue her collaboration with businesses in the United States and plans to 
open a store in the I I area. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the five criteria she claimed to have 
satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work in the field of design and display of her work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases.1 The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she meets these additional criteria. 
As more fully discussed below, we agree with the Director's decision. The Petitioner has not met her 
burden of proof to establish eligibility under each criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor.2 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)Q..}..uL_Jhe Petitioner submitted a copy and translation of a certificate for her Mara 
de Oro Award as a Fashion Designer with International Projection," which was issued by the 
Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela onl I 2018. The record includes letters from the 
president of the Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela discussing the qualifications necessary to 
receive an award and the history of the Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela. It also contains several 
online articles regarding the Mara de Oro awards. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director 
requested documentation to demonstrate that the Petitioner's award was recognized beyond the 
awarding entity. The Petitioner's response highlighted three previously offered online submissions: 
two from Panorama and one from El Universal. 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vii). 
2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, 
but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards 
or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See 
generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
In his decision, the Director recognized that the Petitioner was the recipient of the Mara de Oro Award; 
however, he concluded that the award is not a nationally or internationally recognized award in her 
field of endeavor. The Director determined that awards of this nature that are recognized nationally 
or internationally "usually receive a certain level of media coverage," and that the record did not 
sufficiently document the Petitioner's receipt of the award in 2018 in either international or national 
media. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to several articles previously submitted and asserts that the 
Director did not address the evidence provided or explain why it was insufficient to show that the 
award is recognized nationally or internationally. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that the Mara de Oro 
award is a nationally or internationally recognized award in her field of endeavor. The Petitioner did 
not submit evidence showing that Mara de Oro award winners receive a level of media coverage that 
is commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the arts. The limited 
evidence of the award's media coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or international 
recognition associated with the award. Rather, several of the submitted articles are brief 
announcements of prior awards ceremonies and do not mention the Petitioner or the 2018 awards 
ceremony. One submission, _____________ in Panorama, mentions the 
Petitioner's receipt of the award; it includes a picture of the Petitioner with her award, with a two­
sentence article stating that she was recognized with the "Mara de Oro prize." However, it does not 
establish the level of national or international recognition associated with the award. Further, the 
online articles and letters from the organization's president do not provide clear or consistent 
information regarding the award categories, the number of annual awards given, the criteria used to 
grant awards, or whether all of the awards are deemed national or international in scope. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner documented her receipt of the Mara de Oro award as al I Fashion 
Designer with International Projection," the supporting evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that 
this is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award in her field of endeavor. Thus, the 
Petitioner has not met her burden to establish that she meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted online articles from various websites and publications, together with 
viewership or circulation information. In his RFE, the Director stated that the majority of the evidence 
"reflected blurbs about the petitioner's exhibition at the I Hotel or her receipt of the 
Mara de Oro prize, but no articles which told a story about her work." In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner asserted that the articles submitted with the petition meet the plain language of the regulation 
because they "concern [the Petitioner] in connection to her work in the field." 
In his decision, the Director indicated that he reviewed all of the articles submitted and found that 
none of the articles discussing the Petitioner and her work met plain language requirements of the 
4 
regulation. Specifically, he concluded that the published material is not "about" the Petitioner related 
to her specific work in the field for which classification is sought, and that the website visitation and 
ranking data from SimilarWeb.com did not establish that the cited sources qualify as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that two of the articles submitted meet the lain language of the 
regulation: " written b and ublished on 
I I 2017, in Panorama; and written by and 
published onl I 2018, in Panorama. Specifically, she asserts that these articles were published 
in major media3 and are about her relating to her work in the field of the arts. 
As to the discussion of whether Panorama qualifies as "major media," the Director found that the 
website visitation and ranking data for panorama.com.ve from SimilarWeb.com did not establish that 
it qualifies as major media. Upon review, we agree with the Director's assessment of the evidence. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation (online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendix). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that panorama.com.ve is ranked #87 of "all other" news and media sources in 
Venezuela and that the ranking data from SimilarWeb.com serves as comparative and reliable 
evidence supporting its designation as "major media." 
The website statistics from SimilarWeb.com indicate that panorama.com.ve ranks 20,733 globally and 
87 in Venezuela, and that approximately 80% of the website's traffic comes from Venezuela; it also 
shows the average amount of time viewers spend on the website. However, the record does not 
contextualize those statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information may 
establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
submitted materials do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show that panorama.com.ve qualifies as 
major media. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76.4 
As to the discussion of whether the published material is about the Petitioner related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought, we note that none of the submitted articles include 
a substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 (Appendix). While the two articles referenced on appeal mention the Petitioner, neither 
article includes a substantial discussion about her relating to her work as a fashion designer. Instead, I is a brief, two-paragraph article with pictures relating to one of 
her collections. The article includes quotes from the Petitioner, but it does not include a 
substantial or material discussion about her relating to her work. Similarly, I is a two-sentence article, including a quote from the Petitioner, with a picture relating to her 
acceptance of the Mara de Oro award. The article does not include a substantial or material discussion 
about her relating to her work as a fashion designer. 
In sum, the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to demonstrate her eligibility under 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
3 The Petitioner does not claim that they were published in professional or trade publications. 
4 The article does not indicate that it was posted on panorama.com.ve. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner asserts that she is the leading designer and owner ofl I that 
she performed in a leading and critical role for this organization, and that the organization has a 
distinguished reputation. With the petition, she submitted a letter from the vice president of her I I company; articles discussing local exhibitions of her designs in Venezuela; letters from 
companies she has collaborated with; a printout from her Instagram account; financial evidence 
relating to her company; and a letter from a photographer who has photographed her designs. In the 
RFE, the Director requested additional evidence to demonstrate tha is is an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner's RFE response highlighted previously 
submitted articles related to her work in Panorama and La Verdad to demonstrate that she has 
performed a leading role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
In his decision, the Director determined that that Petitioner did not establish that herl lbrand 
has a distinguished reputation. The Director found that the articles in Panorama and La Verdad did 
not speak to the distinguished reputation of the Petitioner's brand, __________ the 
Director stated, "in fact, little is known about this company in the record." On appeal, the Petitioner 
again asserts that the article in Panorama discussing her receipt of the Mara de Oro award, and the 
article in La Verdad stating that her business is a "big success," demonstrate that she has performed a 
leading or critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director that that Petitioner has not established that her ___ 
brand has a distinguished reputation. The record does not include evidence sufficient to allow for an 
evaluation of the Petitioner's brand or company as it compares to others in the industry. Aside from 
the mention of her work in articles, the only business documents of record are a 201 7 cash flow 
statement and a 201 7 report of financial statements from a public accountant described in the report 
as "unaudited" and "unreviewed;" these documents provide a limited view of the reputation of the 
Petitioner's business. While the record includes letters of endorsement from the Petitioner's 
colleagues that speak to her creativity and work ethic, the letters do not provide sufficient information 
to establish thatl I holds a distinct or eminent reputation as a brand in the 
fashion industry. The Petitioner has not met her burden to establish that she has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
G 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23249897 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim, and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. In addition, the individual must seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability and their entry must be of 
substantial prospective benefit to the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist who has developed and enhanced computational and 
mathematical tools and models for simulating gas and fluid flow dynamics, with applications in 
aerospace and mechanical engineering and software simulation technology. He received his Ph.D. in 
aerospace engineering and mechanics from the University ofl lwhere he also worked as a 
graduate and post-doctoral research associate. At the time of filing, he was employed by the Scientific 
Computation Research Center atl University. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three claimed criteria, relating to judging 
the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. However, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish his original contributions of major significance, and therefore did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. As such, the Director did not proceed to a 
final merits determination. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field by peer reviewing 
manuscripts for professional journals and conferences and that he has authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications including Aerosol Science and Technology, Computers & Fluids, and 
Physics of Fluids. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has also made original contributions of major significance 
and that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence submitted in support of the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not appear to 
2 
give evidentiary weight to detailed letters from experts in his field which discuss his contributions and 
their impact on the field. In addition, the record contains supporting evidence indicating how other 
scientists in the field, including researchers at NASA, have relied on the Petitioner's work and used 
his computational models as a benchmark to further their own research. 
For example, a letter from the former chief of the Applied Aerosciences and Computational Fluid 
Dynamics Branch at NASA's Johnson Space Center addresses the significance the Petitioner's 
published research. Specifically, he notes that the Beneficiary's work at the University ofl I 
was incorporated into the Direct Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) tools NASA uses for rarified gas 
assessments for spacecraft flight and for the analysis of rocket exhaust impingement of vehicles 
docking to the International Space Station. He states: 
One of [the Petitioner's] specific contributions included the development of an 
advanced and robust, generic computational geometry engine fundamental for the 
embedded multi-topological domain discretization used by our NASA simulation tools, 
which has been directly implemented in our codes. He also has custom developed 
specialized computer modules that have been implemented in the NASA tools, ... 
Each of these advancements have dramatically advanced the state-of-the-art 
capabilities of the NASA tools which are relied upon by not only NASA, but also by 
other U.S. government agencies, Department of Defense, and commercial industry for 
similar applications. 
In addition to the submitted letters from experts in his field, the Petitioner provided a 2019 article 
authored by scientists from NASA Ames Research Center and Sandia National Laboratories and 
published in Physics of Fluids, which discusses the history of the DSMC method and significant 
advancements in the field. The authors single out the Petitioner's work among "several notable 
parallel DSMC codes ... developed over the last 30 years to leverage the increasing computation 
power of parallel machines," and mention the incorporation of the Petitioner's original work into 
NASA's own DSMC tools. 
Based on this evidence and other evidence not discussed here, the Petitioner has provided sufficient 
detail to establish the nature of his original contributions to the advancement of DSMC methods and 
applications and the significant impact of this work on his field. We conclude that the Petitioner met 
his burden to establish that he meets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The 
Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Accordingly, the 
Director's decision is withdrawn. 
However, meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) does not, by itself, 
establish eligibility for the requested classification. As the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements, we will remand the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision that includes a final 
merits determination consistent with Kazarian. 
On remand, the Director must analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments to determine if he 
demonstrated his extraordinary ability in his field of endeavor. The new decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, that 
3 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we are withdrawing the 
Director's decision and remanding the matter so that the Director may conduct a final merits 
determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22646153 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner states he is one of the few leading engineering, data science, internal medicine, and 
therapy intervention experts in biomedical engineering. He also states that he is well-known in his 
field through his development of the I I artificial pancreas technology which resulted in four 
patents, and four journal articles. He investigates issues related to the development of continuous 
glucose monitors, artificial pancreas pumps, and decision support algorithms. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met five of 
those criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director failed to provide a proper final merits determination 
because he did not consider the totality of the evidence in order to determine whether the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who have risen to the top of their field of endeavor and has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that the Petitioner's achievements have been recognized in his 
field of expertise. For example, the Petitioner notes that the Director included the citation statistics of 
other researchers but did not acknowledge the evidence from Microsoft Academic indicating the 
Petitioner's citation statistics placed him among the top one percent of the more than 34 million authors 
publishing research in Engineering, Computer Science, Medicine, and Dynamic Models. The 
Petitioner also states that the Director did not acknowledge the evidence from Clarivate Analytics 
regarding the Petitioner's published papers and his ranking. The Petitioner states that the Director did 
not discuss specific deficiencies regarding documents submitted to demonstrate the Petitioner is one 
of the small percentage who have risen to the top of his field of endeavor and has sustained national 
or international acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise, and that 
the Director improperly dismissed evidence without proper explanation. 
In addition, the Petitioner states the Director erred by imposing a citation threshold and for not 
providing an explanation as to why he used certain researchers as a comparison to the Petitioner. 
2 
In a final merits determination, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) analyzes 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
Upon review, we conclude that the Director did not adequately address the evidence of record when 
considering the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. An officer must fully explain the reasons 
for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow 
us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of 
M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Therefore, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address the final merits determination pursuant to section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and 
any other issues. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24187228 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
I. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects the Petitioner is an electrical engineer. He obtained bachelor's and master's degrees 
in electrical engineering from the University of I I Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have 
satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Documentation of receipt of lesser nationally or international recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in the field of endeavor; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that he met 
any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional 
evidence and states that he submits "more objective evidence than personal statement." For the 
reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied any of the 
claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that a portable charging device, called !received a Red Dot 
award, and he provides information printed from the internet indicating it received a Red Dot award 
in 2019. In addition, the Petitioner provides a letter from the company that manufactures I I I confirming it will employ the Petitioner as an electrical engineer. The Petitioner contends 
that as a team member helping develop! I he was recognized with the Red Dot award. 
Although the Petitioner states he helped develop the product, the printout he submitted on appeal 
2 
named the designers of the product, and he was not named. Moreover, it appears that the Red Dot 
award was awarded to the product and the company that designed the product, and the Petitioner did 
not provide any evidence to indicate that he also received the award. Nor does the Petitioner submit 
sufficient information regarding the Red Dot award itself such that we can ascertain whether the 
process of winning that award aligns with this category's eligibility requirements. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides photographs of his "light and objective specs" as proof of his ability 
to make "better lights and my capacity to evaluate others work." The Petitioner provides photographs 
taken of what appears to be a machine, but he did not describe the photographs or the machine they 
depict. The photographs are not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner judges the work of others in 
the same or an allied field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also provides email correspondence he exchanged with an "industry" 
company "asking comments from me and my reply to them." The Petitioner also provides an online 
google translation of the email correspondence, since parts of it took place in the Mandarin Chinese 
language. It is not sufficient to carry the Petitioner's burden. First, we have no context of the 
conversation and the line of questioning for the Petitioner, and without additional information it is 
impossible to determine the Petitioner's role with this company. Moreover, any document prepared 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the 
document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus 
supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, in support of this criterion, the Petitioner submits two letters written by companies that 
were used to support H-1 B petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner. The Petitioner states that he 
3 
assisted in inventing thel I a portable charging device. The Petitioner claims that the H-lB 
support letter from [ I stated the Petitioner "contributed intensively and extensively towards __ cutting-edge wireless charging products." Although the support letter outlines the duties the 
Petitioner will perform as an electrical engineer withl I it does not provide sufficient information 
regarding the level of the Petitioner's involvement in the development of this charging device. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence of the significance of this product in the 
field. Thus, the Petitioner did not demonstrate any original scientific contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also describes portable fusion as an invention, and wrote "unique pattern 
from experiment in I I City showing a huge impact on fusion industry" and provided 
photographs of a machine without any explanation. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball 
Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The Petitioner has not sustained that burden. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25592138 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). After the Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), we dismissed a subsequent 
appeal after which the Petitioner filed a motion to reopen and reconsider that we dismissed for being 
filed outside of the permitted timeframe . Now, she files a motion to reopen relating to her previous 
untimely motions, but we will dismiss this filing. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5( a)(l )(i) provides that a filing party must file a motion to reopen 
within 30 days of the decision, but it also contains a provision that allows U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) to evaluate whether the failure to file within that timeframe was: (1) 
reasonable and (2) beyond the control of the filing party. If the party meets both requirements , USCIS 
has the option to exercise its discretion to excuse the failure to timely file the motion to reopen. 
Within this motion filing, the Petitioner offers two reasons her most recent motions were filed 
untimely , and she requests we accept them as adequate to excuse the late filing. First, she states her 
spouse was diagnosed with COVID-19 causing the family to quarantine, which resulted in a delay in 
filing the previous motion. The Petitioner's spouse was diagnosed with COVID-19 on May 24, 2022, 
and the due date for the previous motion was June 11, 2022. Although she relies the need to quarantine 
as a reason for her delay, the family received professional notice of the virus's presence on May 24. 
The government' s guidance on quarantining at that time was to isolate for five days. CDC Newsroom , 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Dec. 27, 2021), 
https:/ /www .cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/s 1227-isolation-quarantine-guidance.html. That 
recommended timeframe made the family's isolation period through May 29, leaving her 13 days to 
file the motion with USCIS. The Petitioner has not demonstrated the delay in filing was reasonable 
and beyond her control based on her spouse's positive COVID-19 test results. 
Moving to her second reason, she claims she sent the package containing the motion through the U.S. 
Postal Service (USPS) on June 11, 2022, to be delivered on June 13, 2022. As we previously noted, 
the Petitioner was required to file her previous motion by June 11, 2022. The date of filing is not the 
date of submission (here June 11, 2022) but instead it is the date of actual receipt with the required fee 
(here June 13, 2022). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(i). 
The Petitioner also describes a set of events after June 11 that hindered her ability to file the motion. Even 
if we set aside the circumstances the Petitioner describes that followed her June 11 submission, she still 
did not timely file the previous motion as the due date was June 11, the same day she turned the package 
over to the USPS at 11 :43 am. The annotations from USPS on the package reflected its scheduled 
delivery date was on June 13, 2022, two days outside of the Petitioner's 93-day window to file her 
previous motion. The Petitioner did not establish this delay was reasonable and beyond her control. 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated the delay in filing her previous motion was reasonable and 
beyond her control, it is unnecessary that we decide whether to exercise our discretion to excuse such 
a delay. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25610036 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). The Nebraska Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), and we dismissed a 
subsequent appeal. We next dismissed five additional motions he filed and the matter is now before 
us on his sixth motion, which is a motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner bears the burden 
of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter 
of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the combined 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration , establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3) . A motion that does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. The issues here 
are whether the Petitioner: ( 1) has submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to 
warrant reopening , and (2) has established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in 
dismissing his fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The dismissal basis within our most 
recent decision on the Petitioner's fifth motion was his failure to meet motion filing requirements in his 
fourth motion, and it was not related to his eligibility under this classification . 
And the matters the Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues 
discussed within our most recent decision; the decision on their fifth motion. General support that a 
motion must first overcome the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one 
has to file a motion after the most recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity 
who made the latest decision. This demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the 
most recent adverse decision before the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose 
in a previous petition, appeal, or motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses numerous decisions throughout this process, but he 
does not directly take on our most recent dismissal of his motions in our October 31, 2022 decision. 
He discusses the merits of his petition filing harkening back to the Director's original January 2019 
decision and our two subsequent decisions on his appeal and first motion. Those relate to the awards, 
membership, leading or critical role, and contributions of major significance claims. The Petitioner's 
opportunity to make the arguments relating to these past decisions was in the filing that immediately 
followed each of those decisions. We reiterate that the Petitioner must first address the contents of 
our most recent decision from October 2022, but he does not adequately do so here. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our October 
2022 dismissal. 
We also address the numerous motion filings based on the original petition. Multiple motion filings 
serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration 
proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the 
United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. 
Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). USCIS has the 
latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create 
endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending 
to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should 
either reopen the proceedings, nor has he established we should reconsider our October 31, 2022 
decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21983241 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a bachelor's degree in media communications and a fine arts degree in film 
production. She has worked in the film industry in her home country as a director and a producer. 
Her work in the industry led to her founding a film festival in the United States in the genres of horror, 
science fiction, and suspense short films. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met several of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion relating to judging, and we 
agree with that assessment. But the Director determined she had not satisfied the criteria associated 
with prizes or awards, membership, published material, authorship of scholarly articles, or a leading 
or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet each of those except for published material. As the 
Petitioner does not contest the published material criterion on appeal, she has abandoned those claims 
within these proceedings. See Matter of Zhang, 27 I&N Dec. 569, 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that 
an issue not appealed is deemed as abandoned). After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude she has not met the antecedent procedural step of satisfying at least three regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director indicated some of the Petitioner's claims were inadequate as she was not the recipient of the 
accolades and instead the recognition was directed towards productions in which she was associated. 
The Director broadly decided that none of the evidence the Petitioner provided demonstrated the prizes 
or awards were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field. The Director 
specifically noted the record only established the piece the Petitioner co-produced, I I 
I I that was recognized for best editing and best topical documentary at the Emmy 2019 
competition, only amounted to regional recognition because the ' Chapter is the regional 
2 
chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences that represents" a segment of the 
southeast portion of the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner offers a biography of Adam Sharp, President and Chief Executive Officer of 
the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. The explanation the Petitioner provides for 
this evidence is that Mr. Sharp oversees "the annual presentation of the coveted Emmy 
Awards ... proving that I regional Emmy Awards is part of the National Academy of 
Television Arts & Sciences." 
Simply because the I regional awards program is in some way associated with this prestigious 
entity is not adequate to meet the regulations mandate here. This criterion contains several evidentiary 
elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. According to the plain language of the 
regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national is the recipient of the prizes or the 
awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally recognized; and (3) each prize or award 
is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Thel !Regional Emmys are awards granted by thel !Chapter of the National Academy 
of Television Arts and Sciences. The I I Chapter is one of 19 regional chapters and the I I 
Regional Emmy Awards are distinct from the Emmy Award which corresponds with the Academy, 
Tony, or Grammy Award. The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences website reflects 
that "[e]ach Chapter awards Emmys in their region .... " A few Words About Our Regional Chapters, 
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (Feb. 1, 2023), https://theemmys.tv/chapters/. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated honors issued by this regional chapter carry the level 
of recognition of a high-level award from The Academy. The evidence the Petitioner presents on 
appeal continues to demonstrate the 2019 competition was regional in nature, and they have not 
explained or offered evidence demonstrating this accolade is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Additionally, the record lacks the criteria this regional entity relied upon to select the winners of this 
accolade. Based on the lack of relevant evidence, the Petitioner also has not demonstrated this award 
was for excellence in the field, and we agree with the Director that she has not satisfied this criterion's 
requirements. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims her membership of the ________________ 
and the The Director identified her claims associated 
with the but did not directly name any other entity. Regarding the other claimed associations, the 
3 
Director noted an absence of primary evidence such as bylaws or constitutions to establish each 
entity's membership requirements, and they ultimately determined that the evidence did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. 
As it relates to the the Director evaluated this entity's constitution and found it does not reflect 
that outstanding achievements are required as an essential condition of membership for individual 
members. On appeal, the petitioner states this association is a confederation of journalists' trade 
unions. She claims the LJ is the world's largest organization of journalists, and she recounts the 
entity's history. However, she does not address the regulatory requirement that this association require 
outstanding achievements of its members by those recognized as national or international experts in 
the field. As a result, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the will serve to satisfy this criterion's 
requirements. 
For the _______________ the Petitioner's appeal mentions a letter from the 
president of this association that she claims she offered in her response to the Director's request for 
evidence. We reviewed the entire record and found no such letter, and the only material from the 
president was offered with the initial petition submission in which a document he signed certifies her 
membership in this entity. The record lacks support for this association to meet this regulation's 
requirements. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director only considered scholarly material as it relates to the academic arena and determined that 
she did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, those outside of academia may also 
qualify under this criterion. In non-academic arenas, a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's decision and she offers two bases. First, she presented 
a book she authored relating to television and film production. However, she does not offer any 
additional arguments for this evidence for the prospect that it was written for learned persons in her 
field. 
Second, she claims her service as a special guest at a seminar in which she was one of five presenters 
where she discussed her experience and knowledge as a director and producer in television and film. 
Many professional fields regularly hold conferences and symposia to present new work, discuss new 
findings, and network with other professionals. Professional associations, businesses, educational 
institutions, and government agencies promote and sponsor these conferences. Here, the Petitioner 
does not posit that presenting orally at a conference equates to authorship of a scholarly article, nor 
does she establish that such a conference amounts to a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media. The record lacks proof that her work was introduced at the conference and was published 
4 
in any conference proceedings. We therefore determine that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to 
performing in a leading or critical role at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), it is unnecessary for us to reach a 
decision on this additional ground because she cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding 
it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the 
appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22668216 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of engineering, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish, 
as required, that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo 
review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter to the Director for the entry 
of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to their occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or establish that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he was required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Background and procedural history 
The Petitioner asserted that the Beneficiary had sustained national and international acclaim in the 
field of mechanical, aeronautical, and aerospace engineering, stating that he met eight of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner contended that he had received a 
lesser national or international award for excellence, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
pointing to his receipt of a military duty medal from the President of Egypt in 2002 for his 
approximately 26 years of service as a high-level military officer acting in mechanical, aeronautical, 
and aerospace engineering academic and research and development positions with the Egyptian 
military. Further, the Petitioner stated that he had demonstrated his membership in associations 
requiring outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the discipline or field as set forth by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner emphasized 
his membership in the Egyptian I since 1972, the American Institute of I since 1998, and the !Institute beginning 
in 2009. 
The Petitioner further asserted that several of his research papers had been published in mechanical, 
aeronautical, and aerospace engineering scholarly journals thereby meeting the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and that he had participated as a judge of the work of others, consistent 
with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), based on his participation as a judge of doctoral dissertations and his 
2 
performance of peer review for his professor colleagues. The Petitioner also contended that he had 
made original contributions of major significance as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The 
Petitioner emphasized his 28 published scientific research papers, asserted breakthroughs in aerospace 
guidance and control (including Euler parameters), design and development of highly technical 
defense systems and aerospace vehicles while working with the Egyptian military, creation of 
mechanical engineering undergraduate and graduate programs for the Egyptian 
formulation of engineering curriculum as a professor at College in Canada, and supervision of 
doctoral and master of science theses leading to publications and citations. 
In addition, the Petitioner pointed to his participation in college open houses while working as a 
professor and the inclusion of some of his scholarly research papers at industry conferences. The 
Petitioner stated that this represented the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases as set 
forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Petitioner also contended that he played a leading a critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
noting his former leadership roles at the Egyptian strategic defense center from 
1986 to 1995, the I Company from 1983 to 1992, and his formation of 
curriculum at the School of Aviation and Flight Technology atl College in Canada from 2005 
to the present. Lastly, the Petitioner indicated that he that he commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in his field, as reflected at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), while working as a professor at I I 
College. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner met the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), requiring the authorship of scholarly articles, and confirmed that he had 
judged the work of others, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not sufficiently establish that he met any of the other six asserted 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not sufficiently analyze his assertions 
and the submitted evidence with respect to each criterion. 
B. Criteria adopted and affirmed 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish: 1) his membership in associations 
requiring outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the discipline or field as set forth by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); 2) that his work was 
displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); 3) that he 
made original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); or 4) that he commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in the field as reflected at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Upon review, since 
the Petitioner does not specifically articulate on appeal why the Director's conclusions with respect to 
these four criteria were incorrect, we will adopt and affirm the Director's conclusions. See Matter of 
Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) ("[W]e 
join eight of our sister circuits in ruling that the Board [ oflmmigration Appeals] need not write at length 
merely to repeat the IJ' s [Immigration Judge's] findings of fact and his reasons for denying the requested 
relief, but, rather, having given individualized consideration to a particular case, may simply state that it 
affirms the IJ's decision for the reasons set forth in that decision."). 
C. Criteria remanded for further analysis 
3 
However, the Director did not sufficiently analyze two of the other claimed regulatory criteria. For 
instance, with respect to whether the Petitioner received lesser national or international awards for 
excellence, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director only stated that "the submitted 
evidence is insufficient." The Director did not specifically analyze and discuss the evidence provided 
by the Petitioner, including his assertion that a military duty medal he received from the President of 
Egypt in 2002 met this regulatory criterion. 
The Director also did not adequately address whether the Petitioner demonstrated that he had 
performed in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization consistent with 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director only indicated with respect to this criterion that the "letters 
do not explain how the [Petitioner's] accomplishments went beyond a department or project or the 
organization or establishment and impacted the organization or establishment as a whole." However, 
this analysis appears to ignore the Petitioner's assertions with respect to this criterion. For instance, 
the Petitioner pointed to his former leadership roles at the Egyptian strategic 
defense center, thel I Company, and his formation of curriculum at the School 
of Aviation and Flight Technology at I I College in Canada. The Director's decision lacks 
specific discussion of these statements and the supporting evidence meant to support his assertions 
with respect to this criterion. 
Therefore, we agree with the Petitioner's contention that the Director did not sufficiently consider all 
the evidence submitted in support of two criterion, as discussed above. An officer must fully explain 
the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision 
and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see 
also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
D. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. For the reasons discussed above, 
the Director shall issue a new decision that evaluates the assertions and evidence submitted in support 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). If after review the Director 
determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least one of these criteria, thereby demonstrating he met three, 
the decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24218383 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 06, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner does not argue and has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director found the Petitioner met one evidentiary criterion, that 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), related to the foreign national's performance in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets additional evidentiary criteria, which we analyze below. Additionally, for the 
reasons described below, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and instead conclude that he has not established eligibility 
under any criteria. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he received a 201 7 first place award in the category of "news photography" 
from the I The Director notified the Petitioner in a request 
for evidence (RFE) that the record did not sufficiently demonstrate how thel I award is nationally 
or internationally recognized or that the award is given for excellence in the Petitioner's field of 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
endeavor. In response, the Petitioner provided the contest rules and entry requirements, information 
about the award, printouts of various media outlets' announcement of the winners, and readership 
figures of the media outlets. Nevertheless, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
established the national or international recognition of the I I award. We agree. 
As the Director noted, multiple media printouts refer to the competition as "statewide." While the 
various media that announced past winners may have national or international readership, the evidence 
provided does not sufficiently demonstrate that the media announced! I winners beyond state or 
local editions of the media. While we understand the Petitioner's assertion that media outlets such as 
USA Today announced thel !winners, the evidence reflects these announcements may have been 
local news, as evidenced by USA Today's online article within the I I Florida! I 
and references to the Florida re ional USA Toda Network. Other media announcin I I winners 
include the 
Although the parent companies of these local newspapers, or even the local 
newspapers themselves, may have national or international readership, this is insufficient to support a 
finding that the laward is a nationally or internationally recognized award. To further illustrate, 
the Petitioner provided evidence of the contest rules, which state that contest submissions must have 
appeared "in a daily newspaper in Florida ... and must have been the work of staff members of the 
newspaper or Florida-based staff members of a news organization." This supports a conclusion that 
thel I awards are recognized locally or statewide, rather than nationally or internationally. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that awards under this category must be nationally or 
internationally recognized, not nationally or internationally distributed. While we acknowledge the 
distinction, the evidence provided nevertheless does not support a finding that thel laward is 
nationally or internationally recognized. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 2 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 The Petitioner asserted that I I 
published materials about him. 
Thel 2021 I I article contains an interview conducted with the Petitioner. 
Although this article is about the Petitioner's photographs, the record contains little to no evidence to 
support a finding that I lis a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
Rather, the evidence demonstrates that is an individual's online blog, not a major 
2 The evidence suggests that thee=] award may be given for a level of achievement in journalism, which differs from 
the Petitioner's field of claimed extraordinary ability (photography). While we need not discuss this issue, as the evidence 
does not support a finding of the national or international recognition of the a award, we conclude that for this 
additional reason, the award does not support the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
medium. In addition, the evidence does not show that I lis a professional publication or 
a major trade (photography) publication. The I I printout evidences a 2016 
announcement that the Petitioner will provide photographic news coverage of the I I I soccer event. Although the announcement introduces the Petitioner as the photographer 
selected for the soccer games, the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the article is about the 
Petitioner. Rather, the announcement appears to be for the purpose of generating excitement at the 
historic participation of a particular team in the games. Although the I article contains three questions for the Petitioner and his responses to those questions 
in an interview-style format, the article is undated and does not establish eligibility at the time of 
filing. 4 Similar to I I the record contains little to no supporting evidence to establish that I I are professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 5 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his work was on 
display, and that the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. By regulation, the exhibition or 
showcase must have been "artistic."6 
We acknowledge that online and print media outlets published the Petitioner's photographs; however, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of the media featuring his photographs were "artistic" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that self-publishing 
a textbook, lecturing at a community college, and presenting at conferences were not displays at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases consistent with the relevant regulatory language). The publication of his 
photographs in the media are the result of newsworthy events and not necessarily because of the artistic 
nature of the photograph or the event. In other words, the record reflects that the media feature his 
photographs because he covers particular events. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the media 
featuring the Petitioner's work are major publications. While we acknowledge this assertion, the 
criterion here involves artistic exhibitions or showcases, not major publications. The Petitioner has not 
presented evidence that his photographs appeared in venues such as a gallery, museum, or other artistic 
context. Accordingly, the evidence does not support eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is ( or was) a leader within the organization or 
4 Tt is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 T&N Dec. 799, 806 ( AAO 2012). The Petitioner did not include the date of 
the material. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, the English translation of this article contains the date December 12, 2021, 
which is after the filing date of the petition. 
5 Additionally, parts of the printouts appear to be untranslated and are therefore not in accordance with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(3). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
establishment. 7 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 8 While the Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility under this criterion, 
for the reasons below, we withdraw that finding. 
The Petitioner asserted that: 
As a lead Photographer, [the Petitioner] is responsible for the overall look and success 
of these publications as he oversees and coordinates all aspects of the photography for 
the particular publication; ensuring that it is perfect for audiences and consumers to 
enjoy. Therefore, each time [the Petitioner] works to produce quality photographs for 
these major media establishments, he is performing in a leading and critical role for 
them as the success and attraction of the publications ultimately depend on the quality 
and selection of his work. ... Throughout his career, he has served in leadership 
positions for major organizations responsible for overseeing the creation of 
photographic imagery and content for their publications. 
( emphasis removed . Althou h the Petitioner provided evidence that his photographs appeared in 
media, such as the he has not provided evidence that he served in a leading or critical 
role within the or other organizations. The letters froml I 
I I current and former photojournalists with the respectively, state that the 
Petitioner served as an intern at thel IThe letters also state that the Petitioner serves as 
a contract photographer for __________ While the Petitioner did not provide 
information on what a contract photographer is or does, it appears as though he may work for a third­
party that contracts his photography services out to various media, of which I I may 
be one. While both letters praise the Petitioner's talents and abilities, neither letter provides sufficient 
detail concerning how the Petitioner's role was leading or critical. 
Although the Petitioner may assert that photographers in general are critical to the functioning of 
media, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented how his role within the media organizations was 
leading or critical. 9 The Petitioner asserted that "the success and attraction of the publications 
ultimately depend on the quality and selection of his work;" however, he has not provided sufficient 
evidence to substantiate this claim. He has not provided evidence that, for instance, he is the only 
photographer at the events and the only source of photographs for a particular medium. Nor has he 
offered sufficient evidence to demonstrate, for example, that people subscribe to and read the media 
publications due to his photographs, as opposed to the written content of the publications. 
The record contains a list of images the Petitioner purportedly submitted to numerous different media 
sources. The Petitioner provided little explanation for the significance and evidentiary relevance of 
this list. We cannot, for example, determine whether the list: (1) suggests that the Petitioner works 
for a third-party that contracts with media organizations for photographic coverage services; 
(2) demonstrates that the Petitioner attends events to take photographs, but the media may or may not 
7 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Here, it "is not the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is ( or was) critical." Id. 
5 
select the Petitioner's photographs; (3) shows that the Petitioner works for one media organization, 
such as I I which may sell the Petitioner's photographs to other media outlets; or 
(4) demonstrates that the Petitioner works for each individual media outlet listed. In addition, the 
evidence does not support the Petitioner's assertion that he "oversees and coordinates all aspects of 
the photography for the particular publication" and "served in leadership positions for major 
organizations." Although the Petitioner provided evidence that his photographs appeared in media, 
he has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments.10 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. 11 Here, we must consider whether the regulatory criteria 
are readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation.12 A petitioner should explain why he has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 13 General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an 
occupation are not probative and should be discounted. 14 
Here, the Petitioner did not show why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, the Petitioner asserted that he has already established eligibility under four criteria, that of 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), and (viii), which we analyzed above. Simply because the 
Petitioner's evidence does not establish eligibility under one or more criteria does not mean that the 
criteria are not readily applicable to the photographer occupation. Nevertheless, because the Director's 
explanation regarding comparable evidence is both confusing and contradictory, we provide the below 
analysis. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media."15 In general, the 
article(s) should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, 
or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed.16 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.17 
10 Because the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, we need not analyze whether the organizations or establishments have distinguished 
reputations. 
11 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
16 Id. 
17 Id. 
6 
Here, the Petitioner has not claimed, nor submitted, evidence that he has written any articles. Rather, 
he stated that he "is not placed in a position where he has the opportunity to teach about photography 
via a scholarly article or text." Instead, the Petitioner submitted evidence that his photographs 
appeared in various media publications and asserted that the wide readership of the media is 
comparable evidence to the authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Specifically, he stated that he "communicates with his audience 
and transmits information in an even more effective way than he would if he were drafting articles .. ,, 
Although the Petitioner could have written scholarly articles about photography techniques or cameras 
and specifically acknowledges that "photographers can publish scholarly articles," he requested that 
we accept comparable evidence instead. While we do not doubt the legitimacy and power of visual 
communication, this criterion pertains to the authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. As "photographers can publish scholarly articles," he has not 
demonstrated that this criterion does not readily apply to him. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not 
established how the evidence he provided is comparable. 18 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts the readership figures of the media in which his images are published is comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, he explained that "his success is measured in terms 
ofreadership figures and his "broadcasts" are exhibited to an audience who sees his work on various print 
and digital media ... success as a news photographer lies in the amount of people his work is exposed to 
.... " While we acknowledge this argument, the "commercial successes" criterion does not refer to 
readership figures or the number of people exposed to his work.19 Rather, criterion (x) concerns the 
commercial success of projects in which the individual participated, documented by evidence such as 
box office receipts for films or record sales. Even if we view his photographs as performing arts 
projects, readership figures would not establish commercial success. The purchase price of the 
copyrights to specific photographs could be more probative evidence of "commercial successes," but 
even this would not constitute "box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales" as 
the regulation requires. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established how the evidence he provided 
is comparable. 
18 Although we do not discuss the merits of the "comparable" evidence, we note that even ifwe considered it, the Petitioner 
has not established how it would meet the definition of scholarly. The media publications cover sports, local news, and 
breaking news, among other topics. The general public is the intended audience of the articles and images in the media. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that his work is scholarly in nature, as news articles for general public 
consumption do not necessarily demonstrate that the intended audience is learned on a particular topic, let alone 
photography specifically. 
19 For instance, the Petitioner offered little evidence to establish that the Petitioner's specific photographic contributions 
drive the overall readership figures for a particular medium, as opposed to the written content or other photos within a 
medium driving the readership figures. To further illustrate, the commercial success of, or widespread attendance at, an 
event, such as the Kentucky Derby or the Orange Bowl, does not have any apparent connection to the photographers hired 
to cover the event. 
7 
We conclude the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three 
criteria. His assertions that he has already established eligibility under four criteria reinforce this 
conclusion. Simply because the Petitioner's evidence does not establish eligibility under one or more 
criteria does not mean that the criteria are not readily applicable to the photographer occupation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement award 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed 
the record and conclude that, in the aggregate, it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051367 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish he was the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 53 7, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude 
that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Petitioner's Field 
We begin correcting the record relating to the field in which the Petitioner has worked and proposes 
to continue such work in an area of claimed extraordinary ability. The Director indicated his field was 
aerospace engineering. However, the Petitioner notes his field is among those working in the area of 
composite materials. Although the Petitioner's Ph.D. certificate reflects his degree is in aerospace 
engineering, within the appeal he notes his studies specialized in both that area as well as composite 
structures. A review of the record reveals much of the Petitioner's work centers on composites and 
their use in various industries and we consider his field to be in that broader specialization. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied either criteria associated with prizes or awards, or 
contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets both the 
evidentiary criteria the Director denied. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree the 
Petitioner satisfied the criteria the Director granted, and we conclude he has satisfied at least one 
additional criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided the 2020 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) I prize. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion because he did not establish the award was nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
2 
We note the Director only discussed whether the Petitioner provided evidence the award was 
nationally or internationally recognized through major trade publications or other major media, but 
they did not evaluate whether the award might receive such recognition through its issuance by an 
international- or a national-level professional association. On appeal, the Petitioner claims the 
Director ignored some of the evidence it submitted under this criterion. It offered a letter from the 
co founder of the award who noted this award is open to competition from those around the world and 
not simply those at a conference, he provided the judging criteria related to the award, and evidence 
relating to AIAA as a historied professional association and it is the world's largest technical society 
relating to the aerospace profession. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. Here, the 
Petitioner has offered evidence that this award meets all of these requirements. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's unfavorable determination as it relates to this criterion. 
C. Petitioner's Signatures on Immigration Forms 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2) provides that "[u]nless otherwise specified in this chapter, an 
acceptable signature on a benefit request that is being filed with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) is one that is either handwritten or, for benefit requests filed electronically as 
permitted by the instructions to the form, in electronic format." According to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A), USCIS will reject a request that does not bear a valid signature when it receives 
the request. USCIS policy reflects in instances where the agency has accepted a benefit request for 
adjudication and we subsequently discover a deficient signature, we will deny the benefit instead of 
rejecting it. See generally l USCIS Policy Manual B.2(A), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
A person's signature on an immigration form establishes a strong presumption that the signing party 
knows its contents and has assented to them, absent evidence of fraud or other wrongful acts by another 
person. Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496, 499 (BIA 2018) ( citing Thompson v. Lynch, 788 F.3d 
638, 647 (6th Cir. 2015); Bingham v. Holder, 637 F.3d 1040, 1045 (9th Cir. 2011). The probative 
force of a declaration subscribed under penalty of perjury derives from the signature of the declarant. 
Although the "regulations do not require that the person signing submit an 'original' or 'wet ink' 
signature on a petition, application, or other request to USCIS," we do "not accept signatures created 
by a typewriter, word processor, stamp, auto-pen, or similar device." 1 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, 
at B. Also see l USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at A ( stating that "[ee ]xcept as otherwise specifically 
authorized, a benefit requestor must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with 
USCTS"). USCTS has implemented these regulations and attendant policies "to maintain the integrity 
of the immigration benefit system and validate the identity of benefit requestors." 1 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at A. Finally, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a) requires that the Form G-28, Notice 
of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative "must be properly completed and 
signed by the petitioner, applicant, or respondent to authorize representation in order for the appearance 
to be recognized by DHS." 
3 
It appears that at least three signatures in the record might not comply with the regulation or USCIS 
policy.1 We especially observe that the Petitioner's signatures appear idiosyncratic on the Form G-28 
that accompanied the petition, as well as his signature on the petition itself. They first drew our 
attention as they are much lighter in color than a signature normally appears. Upon further review of 
the physical document itself: we observed no impression from the signature on the opposite side of 
the paper, and closer inspection of the signature revealed that it is comprised of small lines or shading. 
This appears to be a variation of the Ben Day technique in which printing-or in this case 
electronically transposing an item-uses lines or textures to create a lighter shaded product while using 
less ink than it would take to make a solid line. Laurence Petit and Pascale Tollance, Point, Dot, 
Period ... The Dynamics of Punctuation in Text and Image, 10 (Cambridge Scholars Publishing) 
(2016). 
After those factors raised suspicion, we compared these signatures to the rest of his signatures in the 
record and we discovered that at least three signatures are identical in numerous observable manners. 
Those three identical signatures appear on the Form G-28 submitted before the Director, on the 
petition, and on the Petitioner's personal statement he filed when he filed the petition. The Director 
may wish to determine if those representations were electronically transposed onto the documents, 
because if they were, then each signature would not be considered a valid signature in accordance with 
the regulation and agency policy. 2 
We acknowledge that in some instances, a photocopy of an original signature is acceptable on USCIS 
forms. But such acceptance is limited to when the filing party: (I) executes an original signature 
directly onto the immigration form, (2) a photocopy is made of that form, and (3) the photocopy of the 
original signature on the original immigration form is submitted to USCIS. USCIS policy specifically 
states that any such photocopy "must be of an original document containing an original handwritten 
signature, unless otherwise specified." See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, B.2(B). That is 
not what we seemingly have before us here, and the Director may wish to decide if these 
indistinguishable representations of the Petitioner's signature make it more likely than not that they 
were electronically transposed onto the immigration forms, which would not adhere to the stated 
policy. 
Without knowing whether these documents are in compliance with the regulation and USCIS policy, 
we cannot determine whether the original petition was properly filed. See generally 8 C.F.R. 
§ I 03 .2( a). Further, in the same way that one person signing a declaration "for" another person carries 
no evidentiary force, neither will an image of a signature duplicated in using some electronic means 
or method. Without the signatory's actual and personal signature as the declarant, the Director would 
operate within their authority in concluding that the Petitioner's declaration under the penalty of 
perjury on these immigration forms has no evidentiary force. See In re Rivera, 342 B.R. 435, 458-59 
(D. N.J. 2006); Blumbergv. Gates, No. CV 00-05607, 2003 WL 22002739 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 19, 2003). 
1 In making this observation, we do not propose to be handwriting experts. But we can identify identical appearing 
representations of a person's identity, especially when they contain characteristics that are identical in their slant or angle, 
where the writing instrument lifts at identical portions of various letters, symmetry of the letters, etc. 
2 We discuss the Petitioner's personal statement because it is identical to the other documents. In doing so, we acknowledge 
that his personal statement is not an immigration form, subject to the requirements described in the regulation and agency 
policy. 
4 
If the Director were to determine the signature on the petition is deficient, in line with agency policy, 
it is within their discretion to issue an adverse decision on that basis. See generally l USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, B.2(A). Because the signature issue was not addressed previously before the Director, 
and because the record otherwise supports a favorable determination on a third criterion and warrants 
a remand, we will not make a decision on the signature issue in the first instance here. However, the 
Petitioner should be prepared to demonstrate that each of the signatures on immigration forms in the 
record comply with the regulation and with USCIS policy on this issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this matter so the 
Director can reevaluate whether the petition warrants an approval to include the signature issue and, 
if they find in the Petitioner's favor on that requirement, a final merits determination in keeping with 
the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he was the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner attained several degrees from his studies spanning from 2004 to 2014, and he has 
operated in the network communications and the "internet of things" realm. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before 
the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met eight of the regulatory criteria. The Director decided that 
the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles and performing in 
a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with: 
• Prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Judging; 
• Original contributions; or 
• Commercial success. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material, 
original contributions, and commercial success. As the Petitioner does not contest the following 
criteria, he has abandoned those claims within these proceedings: prizes or awards, membership, and 
judging. See Matter of Zhang, 27 I&N Dec. 569, 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that an issue not 
appealed is deemed as abandoned). 
A. Translation Certifications 
We begin noting a deficiency in the appellate evidence relating to documents that originate in a foreign 
language. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3)) states "[a]ny document containing foreign language 
submitted to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) shall be accompanied by a full English 
language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's 
certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." See also 
Matter of Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550, 551 (BIA 1976). 
2 
The language utilized within the regulation implicitly precludes a single certification that validates several 
translated forms of evidence unless the certification specifically lists the translated documents. Without 
a single translator's certification for each foreign language form of evidence, or a translator's certification 
specifically listing the documents it is validating, the certification cannot be regarded to be certifying any 
specific form of evidence. The final determination of whether evidence meets the plain language 
requirements of a regulation lies with USCIS. See Matter of Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988) (finding the appropriate entity to determine eligibility is USCIS). 
Reviewing the certifying documents relating to the Petitioner's evidence on appeal, those instruments 
appear to be a single certification document that was photocopied for each form of evidence originating 
in a foreign language, and they do not identify what document they are translating. Each certification is 
identical in appearance to include the certifier's unique signature as well as the handwritten date. 1 A 
photocopied blanket certification that does not identify the translations it is certifying-or name the 
Petitioner-is not probative evidence that the certification relates to all or any of the translations in 
this record of proceeding. Such a deficiency in the certification results in the evidence accompanied 
by these translations to possess diminished value and are insufficient to demonstrate the validity of 
the foreign language materials. 
Because the Director did not raise this specific issue, we will not apply this determination to the two 
criteria the Director granted unless the Petitioner demonstrates he satisfies one additional criterion, 
which would result in a remand to the Director. We also note the translator's signature on the 
documents before the Director appears markedly different than the signature for this same individual 
on appeal. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the requirements of this criterion 
because it was not about him. The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion and 
submitted supporting evidence. The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the regulatory 
requirements and issued a request for evidence (RFE), but the Petitioner's response to that request did 
not contain claims relating to this criterion. The regulation states a petitioner shall submit additional 
evidence as a director, in his or her discretion, may deem necessary. The purpose of an RFE is to elicit 
further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been established, as of 
the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(8), (12). The failure to submit requested evidence 
that precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.2(b)(14). 
1 In making this determination, we do not propose to be handwriting experts. But we can identify identical appearing 
documents, especially when they contain letters, words, and numbers that are indistinguishable in their slant or angle, 
writing instrument lifts at identical portions of various letters, symmetry of the letters, etc. 
3 
Where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept new claims or evidence offered for the 
first time on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 I&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017) (citing Matter of 
Soriano, 19 T&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 T&N Dec. 533, 53 7 
(BIA 1988). If the Petitioner had wanted the submitted claims and evidence to be considered, he 
should have submitted the documents in response to the Director's RFE. Id. Under the circumstances, 
we are not obligated to consider the sufficiency of these specific claims or evidence submitted on 
appeal. 
Setting that issue aside, the Petitioner provided several documents that appear to either be articles or 
in-person interviews. Even though the material appears to reflect the title, date, and author, it lacks 
the source in which each form of evidence appeared. Furthermore, the translations of this material are 
accompanied by the deficient certifications that significantly diminishes the evidentiary value of this 
material. Although the appeal brief indicates the Petitioner is mentioned in each form of evidence, he 
does not establish the Director committed an error in evaluating the material under this criterion's 
requirements. 
Based on these numerous shortcomings, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) ( finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). 
Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than being potential, 
future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to 
meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed his eligibility under this criterion based on his participation on committees that 
produced standards for various practices in his field, as well as his role in receiving patents. The 
Director determined the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's role on committees, the Director noted he did not offer evidence about 
the committees, the specific work that resulted from each committee, or the actual impact of each 
committee's work in the broader field. On appeal, the Petitioner restates he was one of the main 
drafters in the preparation of national standards and he identifies several exhibits and their 
corresponding exhibit number that corroborate his claims. However, a review of the Petitioner's 
appellate materials-consisting of more than 250 pages-reveals that he did not organize the evidence 
4 
using exhibit numbers as he claims. Due to the nature of the material appearing in a foreign language, 
it is also not clear how the documents are organized. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter ofOtiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). 
We noted above why foreign documents without sufficient certified translations will not adequately 
aid the Petitioner in demonstrating eligibility within these proceedings. Even setting that deficiency 
aside, the appellate material that we can discern as addressing the various committees and their work 
does not establish how that work had a significant effect in the Petitioner's broader field. Simply 
claiming a group effort to create standards without evidence showing how those standards impacted 
the field are insufficient under this criterion. Additionally, when a petitioner advances similar claims 
on appeal that they presented to the Director, but without explaining how the Director's decision 
contained any errors, this may generally be viewed as an inadequate basis to claim eligibility under 
this criterion on appeal. 
Because the Petitioner submits foreign material with deficient translations, he offers significant 
amounts of evidence without devising a method to identify what documents he is referencing, and he 
does not explain how the Director might have erred in their decision, he has not overcome the adverse 
determination relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner provided information related to patents. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion because the regulation limits this provision to those in 
the performing arts. Although the Petitioner contests the Director's ultimate determination under this 
criterion, he does not address the Director's actual reasoning for not granting the criterion. As the 
Petitioner has not addressed the Director's findings nor adequately explained how his claims or 
evidence situate him within the performing arts, he has not met the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
5 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23072127 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 08, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability)l-140A (Extraordinary 
Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he owns and operates two businesses based in Brazil, a photography business, I I Photography, and a digital marketing agency.I I He states that he intends to 
continue working as a Director of Photography for his companies in the United States. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for one 
criterion, published material about the individual in professional or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record reflects major media has published material about the Petitioner. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner met the published material criterion. 
In denying the petition, the Director found the Petitioner's evidence for five regulatory criteria was 
insufficient. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets three of those evidentiary criteria, display 
of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions, leading or critical role, and high salary in relation to others 
in the field. After reviewing the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established 
that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise eligible for the 
requested benefit. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must document their membership in an assocIatIon and 
demonstrate that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.1 
The Director found that while the evidence indicated that the Petitioner is a member of Professional 
Photographers of America, it did not establish that this association requires outstanding achievements 
of its members. Upon review, we agree with the Director's finding regarding this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner did not directly address this criterion, therefore we will consider his claim to this 
criterion abandoned.2 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner's work was displayed, and that display occurred 
within an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature.3 The Director found that the evidence 
was insufficient to show the Petitioner's work has been displayed in an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
The Petitioner submitted a marketing flyer and photographs from an event entitled I I 
__________ in I I from January 18 to 23, 2008. The Director found 
that such marketing material was not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner's work was displayed at 
an artistic exhibition. We agree with the Petitioner's argument that the photographs submitted show 
"[the Petitioner] and his photography displays within an artistic photography exhibition venue." Also, 
the marketing flyer clearly states that the event is a photographic exhibition of the Petitioner's work. 
The submitted photographs showing the Petitioner with his photographs being displayed at the event, 
together with the marketing flyer stating this was a photographic exhibition of the Petitioner's work, 
are sufficient evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's photographic work was displayed at an artistic 
exhibition. 
The Petitioner also submitted marketing flyers from other events displaying the Petitioner's 
photographs, as well as screenshots of online videos of Brazilian singers and articles related to the 
videos where the Petitioner and the company,! I are credited with the direction, production, 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing an example 
of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be 
nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
3 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that officers should use the common dictionary 
definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
3 
screenplay and editing of videos. If the Petitioner meets three of the required criteria, we will then 
consider this evidence with the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated he meets this criterion, and we 
withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi ii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment (or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading.4 If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation, 
which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence.5 
The Director found that the evidence submitted did not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. The 
Director stated that while the evidence showed the Petitioner photographed Brazilian singers during 
their careers, it was not sufficient to show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for 
an establishment or organization having a distinguished reputation. The Director listed the 
Petitioner's evidence but did not analyze why the evidence did not meet the elements of the criterion. 
Upon de nova review, we find that the Petitioner has not established eligibility for this critierion by a 
preponderance of the evidence, as explained below. 
The Petitioner indicates he is the founder, owner, and primary Director of Photography for two 
Brazilian businesses, ______ (doing business asl !Photography) and I I The record establishes the Petitioner has a leading role for these businesses. 
The Petitioner argues these entities have a distinguishable reputation based on the work he has done 
through these entities "for distinguished clients, including shooting and editing the album cover of 
Grammy winning musical artistl I as well as prolific media coverage [the Petitioner's] 
companies have garnered." The Petitioner submitted the businesses' website information pages and 
articles briefly describing he founded the services offered 
by the businesses, the history of the businesses, and clients they have worked with. The Petitioner 
also submitted photographs of music album covers indicating him as the photographer or director, 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
5 Id. (noting that Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence or befitting an eminent person"). 
4 
letters from the Petitioner's singer clients attesting to the Petitioner's work, articles about the successes 
of the singers, and articles about the Petitioner and his photography work for successful singers. 
Although the record includes testimonial letters from the Petitioner's clients praising the Petitioner's 
photography and artistic talents, as well as, confirming their business relationship with the Petitioner 
as a contributor to their successes, these letters do not speak to the businesses' reputations. Two letters 
mention in a sentence that the Petitioner provides his services through the business, I I I I however, the letters do not attest to the reputation of the business. For instance, while the 
letter froml I states, "[t]hrough his company, has been 
my photographer for all facets of my career," I I goes on to explain at length the work 
performed by the Petitioner and the critical role he played in shaping I I career, including 
the Petitioner receiving "a critically acclaimed spotlight for his work regarding our I I 
Award in 2012." The letter froml I also explains at length the photo ra h and video 
work performed by the Petitioner for him, and the impact the Petitioner has had on career 
with a brief reference that artists want to hire the firm, _______ The letter from 
mostly explains that the Petitioner's work has helped towards his successful career and states the 
Petitioner has an extraordinary ability with his photography and marketing consultancy work. Mr. 
Dalso identifies the services ofl land credits it for his success, however, he 
does not speak to the business's distinguished reputation. While the letters show the Petitioner's 
clients value the Petitioner's services and talents, they do not demonstrate his businesses are 
organizations or entities with a distinguished reputation. 
The record contains a media article from Metropoles complimenting the Petitioner's achievements as 
a photographer and marketing consultant for well-known singers. The article mainly focuses on the 
Petitioner's life and his history becoming a photographer. The article does not mention I I I I and briefly mentions in a sentence that I I was formed in 2015 with the names of its 
artist clients. The Petitioner submitted another article from Cartao de Visita to establish his 
businesses' distinguished reputations. However, the article does not include the author of the article 
and seems to be a marketing, public relations article since the wording is primarily the same, word for 
word, as the wording on the website for I I Photography, except the article also indicates 
the Petitioner now lives and works in Florida. The Cartao de Visita article has the same sentence 
about I used in the Metropoles article. While these articles mention! I and some of its 
clients, they do not provide sufficient evidence the businesses have a reputation marked by eminence, 
distinction or excellence as required by this criterion. 
Other articles submitted relate to his clients' videos and their achievements. While the Petitioner and 
the business.I I are credited in the articles for direction, production, and photography, the 
articles primarily focus on the artists, instead of the reputation of the Petitioner's businesses. The 
evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's businesses have a distinguished 
reputation. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations.6 
The burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, 
but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working 
in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that 
salary would be considered high in the United States.7 
The Petitioner provided his 2018 Brazil individual income tax return; wage data for photographers 
and production directors from online sources, including Salary Explorer and Salary Expert; and an 
article discussing photographer salaries in European countries and Brazi I. We agree with the Petitioner 
that the income tax return is for an individual, the Petitioner, as opposed to the Director's 
categorization of it being for a business. 
However, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's income tax return shows the income he 
received as an owner of the company, instead of as a Director of Photography. 
The tax return indicates that the Petitioner's nature of occupation is "company owner or sole proprietor 
or employer-owner" with a main occupation as "[m]anager, president and director of an industrial, 
commercial or service provider company," and that he derived R$311,448 in taxable income from I I The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence demonstrating that his 
income from I I is for his work as a Director of Photography. The record does 
not show the nature of the business of _______ or the income derived from that 
business. 
The record includes evidence relating to the Petitioner's work as a photographer with a business, I I Photography. Although the Petitioner argues on appeal that ______ 
is doing business as I I Photography, the record does not include independent evidence 
demonstrating the nature and scope of the business of the income derived 
from the business, and the relationship between the two businesses. The Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence that his compensation stated in the tax return from is based 
on his work in the field of endeavor, a Director of Photography. Without sufficient evidence of the 
Petitioner's compensation as a Director of Photography, we are unable to compare the Petitioner's 
income with the submitted wage data. 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); see also Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); 
Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
(considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
7 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that although the Director issued a request for evidence on this issue, 
the notice "was irrational and failed to provide a reasonable explanation for the determination that [the 
Petitioner] did not meet this criterion." The Petitioner argues that the Director did not sufficiently 
explain the issues with the submitted evidence. However, the request for evidence points out that the 
income tax return submitted is insufficient evidence as it relates to income from a business, instead of 
a photographer position, and requests evidence of the Petitioner's renumeration in the field of 
endeavor. 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or television 
productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that 
the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others 
involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts.8 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to meet the plain language of this 
criterion pointing out that the submitted evidence did not show "commercial successes in the 
performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales." 
Although the Director did not provide analysis of the submitted evidence, we agree that it is not 
sufficient to establish this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the artist.I I including a website print out 
indicating a video byl lranked number three as the most viewed videos by Brazilian artists 
with 880,391,002 views; marketing publications for I I related to his iTunes music sales 
and album sales, each recognizing the Petitioner; articles discussin the importance of YouTube 
videos for an artist's success; and YouTube screen shots o video indicating over a 
billion views. While the record includes evidence of commercial success as a 
performing artist, the Petitioner's involvement through direction, photography and production of the 
videos and album covers is not sufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's commercial success as a 
performing artist. The plain language of the regulation does not allow for submission of evidence 
other than box office receipts, video sales, or sales of other recorded media, and that such receipts and 
sales must be attributable to his own work in the performing arts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly address the criterion or the Director's reasons for concluding 
that he did not establish that he meets this criterion. Therefore, we will consider his claim to this 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
criterion abandoned.9 We affirm the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his 
commercial successes in the performing arts. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l){A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. at 658 n.2; see also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att 'y Gen., 401 F.3d at 1228 n. 2; Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25692883 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 8, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business consultant operating in the area of human resources. He claims he has 
made a profound impact and advancements in the personnel management space in Russian-speaking 
countries and the business culture among post-Soviet countries gradually moving "toward more 
efficient, as well as more humane and ethical operations." He describes his field of endeavor as "the 
field of personnel management consulting." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria and he had specifically failed to 
satisfy the criteria associated with prizes or awards, published material, original contributions, leading 
or critical role, or high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the 
same five evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. 
The Petitioner first takes issue with the Director's application of Matter of Caron International, 
19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) to his case. The Petitioner alleges the Director applied this 
decision wholesale to documentation under several criteria, but it appears the Director only relied on 
this decision's findings as it relates to recommendation letters he provided under the contributions of 
major significance criterion. The Director indicated they considered the letters, but that such 
correspondence should be supported by more probative material in the record, and that the agency is 
ultimately responsible for determining whether a foreign national is eligible for a benefit. 
We also note that expert opinion testimony does not purport to be evidence as to fact and we should 
evaluate the content of letters to decide whether they adequately support the foreign national's 
eligibility. See id. at 795; see also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008). While we do 
not agree that the Director applied Matter of Caron International throughout their decision, we do 
observe that they did not explain how some of the letters were not in accord with other evidence in the 
record, or why they found them questionable, which might serve to assuage the Petitioner's objections. 
At any rate, we will address relevant evidence within this decision. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his receipt of the '---------------------' The issuing entity was the _________ of the Russian Federation, and he received this 
accolade in 2017. The Director's analysis under this criterion all points to the evidence not satisfying 
the regulatory requirements, but at the end of the analysis, the Director indicates "the submitted 
evidence meets this criterion." Because the Director's conclusion does not align with the analysis, 
this appears to be a typographical error and we will presume they did not grant this criterion and we 
will make our own assessment. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner was the recipient of this award and that portion of the requirements are satisfied. 
However, we question whether this accolade is nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner 
asserts that because the award was issued by an entity within the Russian government it should be 
considered nationally or internationally recognized. However, the fact that it was issued by an agency 
of the national government does not prove that the award meets the regulatory requirements. The 
record lacks evidence demonstrating its issuance was reported on publicly, and it does not reveal that 
any recognition extended beyond the I 
The Petitioner also compares this award to one issued by the U.S. government. Despite the fact that 
the government issues awards or decorations, that simple fact does not transform it into a nationally 
or internationally recognized item. National and international recognition does not necessarily result 
from the entity that issued the accolade, but through the awareness of it in the eyes of the field 
nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example, 
but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. As a result, we do not agree with 
the Petitioner that U.S. government-issued accolades automatically conforms to the caliber of awards 
this criterion demands. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary requirements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the 
published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to the Petitioner's work 
in the field under which he seeks classification as an immigrant. The published material must also 
appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Professional or major trade 
3 
publications are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. To qualify as major media, the 
Petitioner must establish the circulation statistics are high relative to other similar forms of media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided several articles he characterizes as professional or major trade publications. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion expressing 
doubts about the objective nature of much of the evidence. We share some of the Director's concerns 
relating to portions of the Petitioner's evidence under this criterion. For instance, even though 
businessinsider.com is a form of major media, the article the Petitioner provided from this outlet 
reflects it is a A review of that resource's 
affiliated website reveals that "PRWeb is the leader in online news distribution and publicity. It offers 
various online press release packages, enabling users of all kinds to increase the web visibility of their 
news, reach new audiences, stand out in search, and drive traffic to their websites." About Us, Cision 
PRWeb (Feb. 3, 2023), https://service.prweb.com/about/. 
Even ifwe set those concerns aside, the Petitioner states the articles appeared in professional or major 
trade publications. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy reflects that circulation 
figures for other publications are necessary for comparative purposes to enable us to decide whether 
the resources the Petitioner provides are one of the qualifying publication types. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting that 
"[e]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics .... "). As the record does not contain circulation statistics in which we 
could compare to their provided resources, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner initially provided his foreign tax documents and consulting contracts. The Director 
found that material did not satisfy the regulation's requirements and in response to their request for 
evidence (RFE) the Petitioner asserted that he earns a certain hourly rate as a business consultant in 
the United States, but he did not identify the evidence that might corroborate those claims. He also 
provided two articles positing that his U.S.-based earnings were significantly higher than the average 
hourly earnings for a business consultant in the articles. 
The Petitioner further agreed with the proposition that comparing his total earnings, as reported in his 
foreign tax returns, with salaries of other management consultants would not provide a fair assessment 
since his total earnings also included his compensation as a business owner. Notably, the Petitioner 
conceded he was unable to locate "any market evidence to show how much management consultants 
earn on an hourly basis in" his home country. Finally, after converting his foreign earnings to U.S. 
dollars, the Petitioner compared those figures with the average hourly earnings listed in the articles. 
4 
Those articles contained salary information for management consultants in the United States. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his eligibility under this provision. He claims he established his 
hourly earnings rate in the United States through a copy of his Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien 
Income Tax Return for 2020. We note he did not identify evidence demonstrating these tax forms 
were actually filed and determined to contain accurate figures, nor did he specify what other material 
demonstrates what he earned in the United States as a business consultant that might verify all his U.S 
earnings in 2020 were solely for that service. 
We further note that users policy reflects that we should not evaluate foreign country earnings, 
convert those earnings to U.S. dollars, and use that as a means of comparison. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices). As a result, we do not agree with the method the Petitioner 
proposed in its RFE response. Within the appeal, the Petitioner continues to state his hourly earnings 
rate in the United States, but he again does not specify what evidence corroborates those claims, even 
though he filed the petition in December 2021. 
Ultimately, the Petitioner provided evidence of his earnings in Russia, but he was unable to locate data 
in which we could compare those earnings. And for his U.S.-based earnings, the articles reflect 
average hourly earnings for business consultants. But the plain language of the regulation requires the 
Petitioner to establish his salary is high-or remuneration is significantly high-when compared to 
others in the field. As such, average statistics as a comparison do not meet this requirement. 
Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 
31, 2019) ( agreeing that average salary levels do not allow for an appropriate basis for comparison in 
determining a high salary "in relation to others in the field"). The evidence simply reflected that the 
Petitioner's purported hourly earnings were higher than the average earnings of business consultants 
as a whole rather than demonstrating that the Petitioner commanded high or significantly high earnings 
in relation to others in the field. 
Finally, the record contains two letters claiming what the top consultants earn in the United States and 
in Russia. USCIS policy provides: "the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence. 
Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation 
surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the compensation data." Because the salient 
claims within these letters are not corroborated by other evidence in the record, we consider them to 
be inadequate evidence to preponderantly demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility here. users is not 
required accept primarily conclusory assertions as adequate evidence. Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 
1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
As such, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence necessary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets five criteria, because his arguments fail on any 
of the three criteria we discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
5 
our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it 
unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); 
see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative 
issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23134411 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 09, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a law enforcement training officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in education . Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, we decided 
that while the Petitioner did meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, the record did not 
establish his sustained national or international acclaim or that he was one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor. Therefore, we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now before 
us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2)-(3) . 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported 
by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Any motion that does not meet the applicable 
requirements will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.4(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a training officer of Brazil's ___________________ 
or who is also an internationally competitive Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) athlete. He intends to 
continue developing and providing law enforcement training programs in the United States. 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates his claim that his I in World Master International 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) Jiu-Jitsu Championship is a is a major internationally 
recognized award and constitutes a one-time achievement as defined at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. He also 
disputes our decision that he did not meet the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and 
(vi). Because we have already found that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements by 
submitting documentation of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
not readjudicate any of the criteria or the issue of whether the Petitioner's medal constitutes a one­
time achievement. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"). 
The sole issue on motion is therefore whether the overall record shows the Petitioner's sustained 
national or international acclaim, that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, and that he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d at 1119-1120. Upon review, we find that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner asserts on motion that our prior decision does not follow the USCIS Policy Manual 
guidance to evaluate the totality of the evidence when making the final merits determination. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. He also disputes 
several of the statements made in our prior decision regarding his documentation and achievements. 
2 
The Petitioner states that we incorrectly found that his I I is related to the field of 
competitive BJJ rather than his field of law enforcement training. To support this claim, he cites 
several instances of U.S. law enforcement agencies training their officers in BJJ as well as his job offer 
from _______ a BJJ school, to help develop a training program for police officers. 
However, the fact that the Petitioner's knowledge ofBJJ is relevant to his work does not establish that 
his competition medal constitutes acclaim in the field of law enforcement training. Furthermore, the 
fact that someone has acclaim as a competitive athlete does not indicate that they are also acclaimed 
for teaching this skill. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(A)(2) ("Competitive 
athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not in the same area of 
expertise.") There is insufficient documentation in the record to establish that the Petitioner's acclaim 
as a law enforcement trainer is specifically related to his knowledge of or ability to teach jiu-jitsu. 
Instead, the record indicates that most of his instruction hours have been spent teaching firearms 
courses, that his highest responsibilities at have centered on developing curricula and training 
policies, and that the course he developed is only partially about grappling or other forms of martial 
arts. 
Furthermore, even if we find that the Petitioner's medal is evidence of acclaim in his field of law 
enforcement training, which we do not, the record does not indicate that it rises to the level of national 
or international acclaim. First, the Petitioner competed as a I The website of the IBJJF, which 
hosted the competition, indicates that this is the I lout of eight belt ranks for adults. 1 
Additionally, the Petitioner competed in the featherweight class rather than the open class, which is 
open to competitors of all weights. 2 The IBJJF website also indicates that unlike other competitions, 
such as the World Jiu-Jitsu Championship, the World Master Championship is divided by age and 
restricted to athletes who are at least 30 years old. 3 The Petitioner's I lwas in the I I I I which is for athletes between the ages of 41 and 45. 4 
The Petitioner's medal was earned in competition that was restricted to a lower belt ranking, which 
presumably excluded the highest-skilled athletes. The competition was also restricted to a specific 
age and weight range, whereas other IBJJF competitions do not have these restrictions for top adult 
competitors. This does not indicate that the medal is a form of national or international acclaim. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First 
Step of Reviewing Evidence (noting that limitations on who may compete may indicate that a prize or 
award is not nationally or internationally significant). 
The record also does not show that the Petitioner's medal was acknowledged beyond the IBJJF 
competition results website and a few social media posts from the See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
1 IBJJF, General System of Graduation 4, https://www.ibjjf.com/graduation-system (available as a PDF download) (last 
visited Jan. 6, 2023). 
2 See IBJJF, Athlete Ranking Information, https://www.ibjjfcom/athlete-ranking-info (stating that open class medals are 
worth more ranking points than weight division medals). 
3 TBJJF, Results, World Master IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2020, 
https://www.ibjjfdb.com/ChampionshipResultsic=]PublicResults (showing the Petitioner's competition results divided 
by age group); cf IBJJF, Results, World IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2021, 
https://www.ibjjfdb.com/ChampionshipResults PublicResults (showing that adult competitors in the World Jiu-Jitsu 
Championship are not restricted or divided by age). 
4 IBJJF, General System of Graduation, supra at 7. 
3 
Manual, supra at F.2(B)(l) ("It is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim would have received recognition for his or her 
accomplishments well beyond the circle of his or her personal and professional acquaintances.") 
Finally, the Petitioner cites his job offer from as evidence of his acclaim in his 
field, noting the IBJJF evidence thatl lis the highest-ranked BJJ academy in their athletic 
competitions. However, the Petitioner's letter also states that this organization has over a thousand 
BJJ schools. The Petitioner's job offer is not from the national or international I I 
organization, but from one of their many local BJJ schools. It is therefore not apparent that this offer 
constitutes evidence of the Petitioner's national or international acclaim as a BJJ or law enforcement 
trainer. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's success at the World Master IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship I I he has not shown that the I I he won is an indicator that he has risen to the very top of 
his field, or that it is a form of national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also states that our prior decision did not give sufficient weight to 
___________________ the training course that he developed, and 
its impact on his field in Brazil. The course has been included inl !national portfolio of training 
programs since 2018, along with over thirty other courses. The motion cover letter claims that 
was presented to the President of Brazil in 2020, which is evidenced by a photograph of him holding 
the However, none of the documentation regarding which was in the 
record at the time of our prior decision mentions the Petitioner by name except for internal 
documents and letters of support from his superiors in As noted in our prior decision, the 
statutory requirement for the extraordinary ability classification is not influence or success but 
sustained national or international acclaim. While the record indicates thatl lhas been a useful 
and successful course for it does not establish that the Petitioner himself has received sustained 
national or international acclaim for it. 
We stated in our appeal dismissal that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to establish 
how his high wages compare with those of other high-paid individuals in or for what activities a 
officer would receive extra pay. On motion, the Petitioner cites documentation in the record 
indicating that in 2018, he was the highest-paid instructor in and the second-highest-paid 
individual in the overall agency, and that he received his extra pay for his work in training and 
curricular development. The Petitioner similarly disputes our characterization of the evidence 
regarding his participation in various international law enforcement conferences, citing a letter from 
his superior stating that being invited to participate in these events was prestigious and a sign of his 
importance to However, while this evidence indicates the Petitioner's success within it 
does not establish his acclaim beyond his agency, which is necessary to show that this acclaim has 
risen to a national or international level. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(l). 
In order to establish eligibility for the extraordinary ability immigrant visa, a petitioner must show 
their sustained national and international acclaim and that they have been recognized in their field 
through extensive documentation. Section 203(b )(1) of the Act. The Petitioner has not done so here. 
4 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record at the time the decision was made. The motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3)-(4). 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner submits requests from various Brazilian law enforcement organizations to 
have their personnel attend the course; a 2022 list ofc=] national courses which includes I I and a request to Brazil's Federal Congress to give the Petitioner an award ofrecognition. 
While the Petitioner states that the requests to participate in constitute national recognition in 
his field, none of these letters are addressed to him or mention his name. As stated above, the record 
establishes thatl lis a useful and successful course, and the inclusion ofl lin the 2022 
course list indicates that this agency continues to utilize it. However, this does not establish that 
acclaim for the Petitioner himself has risen to a national or international level or that he is at the very 
top of his field. 
The Petitioner states on motion that he has received an award of recognition from Brazil's Federal 
Congress and provides a letter to support this claim. The May 2022 letter, which is addressed to the 
President of Brazil, is from a Congressman in Brazil's House of Representatives and requests the 
approval of an award ofrecognition for the Petitioner. However, there is no indication that this request 
was approved or that the Petitioner was given this award. We further note that while evidence that 
arises after the time a petition was filed may be used to demonstrate that a petitioner is sustaining their 
national or international acclaim through the time of adjudication, petitioners must establish their 
eligibility as of the time of filing. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
The Petitioner's letter on motion emphasizes that he meets several of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that this should establish his national or international acclaim. 
However, these criteria only describe the initial evidence that must be provided, at a minimum, in 
order to establish eligibility. The fact that a petitioner meets these minimum requirements does not, 
in and of itself, establish that they are eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant visa. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2). 
The new evidence provided on motion does not establish that the Petitioner's achievements with 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, this new 
evidence does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The motion to reopen will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), (4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24734448 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 9, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a figure skating choreographer and coach, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed as a figure skating competitor and intends to work as a coach and 
choreographer for figure skaters. She attained her foreign bachelor's degree in physical education and 
began coaching one year after receiving her degree. 
A. Translation Certifications 
The Petitioner initially provided several foreign language documents that were accompanied by 
translations. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3) states: "Any document containing foreign 
language submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the 
translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) notifying the Petitioner that "[s]everal documents 
were submitted as evidence, but they were not accompanied by a certified English translation in 
accordance with 8 CFR § 103.2(b)(3) and will not be considered probative. Review of the evidence 
revealed the translations do not contain the required language in 8 CFR § 103 .2(b )(3 ). " The translation 
certifications she initially provided were lacking any indication each document was certified as 
complete and accurate. Also absent was the translator's certification that they are competent to 
translate from the foreign language into English. 
When she responded to the RFE, the Petitioner provided certified translations for the documents that 
she submitted with the RFE that appears to comply with the regulation. However, she did not provide 
certified translations for the foreign language materials she submitted when she filed the petition. In 
other words, the initial evidence does not have compliant certifications, but the RFE response 
documentation does. As a result, any initially submitted foreign language evidence carries 
significantly reduced evidentiary value and will not serve as probative to the Petitioner's claims. This 
could explain the issue the Petitioner raises on appeal, that the Director accepted her evidence relating 
to judging the work of others and granted that criterion, but found the evidence for other criteria was 
not accompanied by adequate translation certifications. 1 
1 The Director's RFE indicated the evidence appeared to show she met this criterion, but the evidence was not accompanied 
2 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met seven of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion relating to judging, and we do 
not disagree with that conclusion. But the Director also determined that she had not satisfied the 
criteria associated with: 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Original contributions; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• Display of the her work. 
The Petitioner also claimed she met the high salary criterion, but the Director did not address those 
claims. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
eligibility for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
Because the Petitioner's foreign language evidence she initially submitted does not comply with the 
regulation for such material and it is not probative, we will not address any of that content unless the 
Petitioner remedied that shortcoming in her RFE response or on appeal. The Director first noted some 
of the Petitioner's evidence was subject to this translation deficiency. The Director further noted the 
lack of reliability relating to evidence originating from Wikipedia. Next the Director took issue with 
the context of the memberships, as they appeared to be relating to her time as a competitor but not as 
a skating coach and choreographer. Additionally, the Director noted the Petitioner did not establish 
that the associations require outstanding achievements of their members. And finally, they found that 
the record lacked bylaws for the groups or other evidence of membership requirements to show the 
requisite level of achievement are a condition of membership. 
by a proper translation. The Director appears to have accepted her additional RFE evidence as sufficiently remedying any 
reservations they had, and they granted that criterion. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner addresses some of these elements, but she does not remedy the lack of 
material relating to membership requirements for any association she claimed. The regulation 
informed the Petitioner of this requirement, the Director requested this type of material in the RFE, 
and they also placed the Petitioner on notice of the need to show membership requirements and she 
still has not provided the documentation. We will not presume exclusive membership requirements 
from the general reputation of a given association, as the association's reputation may derive from 
various unrelated factors independent of the exclusive nature of its membership. Because the record 
does not contain the bylaws or other official documentation of the association's membership criteria, 
we cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's membership claims are qualifying. Thus, the Petitioner 
has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her field in 
which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
The second area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for 
learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge 
or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided an article titled 
The article was posted on the website championat.com in 2021. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. As the Petitioner operates outside 
of academia, she should demonstrate the article was written for learned persons in the field. The article 
does not meet this requirement as it appears intended for those who do not compete in her athletic 
field, and she offers no arguments to the contrary. As the Petitioner has not shown this evidence 
qualifies as a scholarly article, it would serve no purpose to evaluate whether it appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets this criterion's requirements. 
4 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner claimed this criterion before the Director but offers no rebuttal of the adverse 
determination on appeal. We consider the claims under this criterion to be abandoned within these 
proceedings. See Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding 
arguments not raised on appeal are abandoned). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because the Petitioner's foreign language evidence she initially submitted does not comply with the 
regulation for such material and it is not probative, we will not address any of that content unless the 
Petitioner remedied that shortcoming in her RFE response or on appeal. The Director did not directly 
address these claims in their denial decision. In the appeal, the Petitioner claims her work for two 
weeks at a 2019 summer camp. She provided her contract for this work reflecting a payment for 
361,200 Russian Rubles. We note the Petitioner characterizes these two weeks of work as a salary, 
but it appears to be more appropriately considered as remuneration, which must be "significantly 
high ... in relation to others in the field." As evidence in which to compare with this remuneration, 
the Petitioner's appeal identifies salaries as listed on a hiring website. 
Foreign persons who do not earn an annual salary and instead receive earnings on a contract or project 
basis should provide sufficient evidence to allow a calculation of their past earnings over a definite 
period of time. For example, submission of evidence such as a director of photography's earnings 
from a single television commercial or an artist's earnings from the sale of a single painting is usually 
not sufficient to meet a petitioner's burden under this criterion. Here, remuneration illustrating two 
weeks of earnings falls short of meeting the Petitioner's burden of proof. Because the record contains 
insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's past compensation, it is unnecessary that we proceed with an 
analysis of whether her claimed remuneration was significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims she meets six criteria, because her arguments fail on 
any of the four criteria discussed above, that means she cannot numerically meet the required number 
of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on her other claimed elements. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements under the published material and 
contributions criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to 
analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also 
Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25527965 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and five subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence.1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the October 19, 2022, 
dismissal of the Petitioner's fifth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence . INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asserts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
denial, and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages 
of the proceeding. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement, and no other evidence, asserting his eligibility for first 
preference classification as a martial artist of extraordinary ability. This statement is identical to the 
statement he submitted with his fifth motion. Furthermore, while the statement generally asserts his 
eligibility for an extraordinary ability visa, it does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy 
error in our October 19, 2022 decision. As before, the Petitioner requests that we "advise what kind 
of documents [we] ... accept to prove [his] case." The Petitioner should review our prior five 
decisions, along with the Director's November 2018 decision to understand the evidentiary 
deficiencies in the record. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our October 19, 2022 decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his 
motion to reopen because he has not provided documentary evidence of new facts related to our prior 
decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24993035 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pianist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pianist and contends she has sustained national and international acclaim. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, 
she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (vii), display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to the display of her work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases and evidence that she performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's display of her work and 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishment that have a distinguished 
reputation. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner states that she received the following awards and documented her receipt by submitting 
copies of her award certificates: 
• First Prize 
• First Prize in the Petitioner's age group, 2020 
• First Prize, 2019 _____ International Competition Series ______ 
I I 
• First Prize, 2020 _____ International Competition Series called 
of Europe" 
• Second Prize, 202ol !International Music Com etition 
• Second Priz 2021 
• First Prize, 2020 _____________ Competition 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
The Petitioner stated that th _________________ is an international music 
competition, and the first prize winners perform in the full-length evening concert at 
As a first-place winner, the Petitioner placed in The I Debut Concert at ____ 
However, the record does not contain any additional information or supporting evidence regarding the 
competition to support the Petitioner's claim that her first prize award should be considered a 
nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field of classical music. Absent, for example, 
information regarding the number of competitors in the Petitioner's age category, or evidence of the 
level of recognition associated with this award, we cannot find that the Petitioner has satisfied each 
element of the criterion. While the Petitioner provided information of previous winners of this 
competition, that is not sufficient to satisfy this element of this criterion. 
The 1s o en to all pianists and participants from all over the 
world. The Petitioner stated that she was artici ants awarded the first prize out of 90 
participants. She also stated she won in 2021 in the same competition 
out of 130 participants. The Petitioner indicated that the competition's Y ouTube channel has 1,220 
subscribers with 158,974 views. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from thel I I I website regarding participation rules and general information of the competition. The 
Petitioner also submitted a letter from the founder and CEO of the I I I lthat stated they have participants from all over the world, and the jury is guided by a 
grading system. The letter also confirmed the Petitioner was among the winners in 2020 and 2021, 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
and it listed other previous winners that are professional pianists. The record does not contain official 
results or other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the competition or in the Petitioner's 
category in the years in which she won. In addition, the Petitioner indicated in the year she was 
awarded first prize, four other individuals in her age group also were awarded first prize. Finally, the 
submitted statements indicate that entry to the competition was age-restricted and not open to all 
musicians who may have been competitive for top prizes. 
In addition, although the supporting evidence indicates that the compet1t10n seeks and attracts 
participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of competitors, without 
more, does not establish the requisite recognition. While the evidence reflects other winners received 
some media attention for their awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence verifying that prizes and 
awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence 
in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herself received any recognition from outside the issuing 
organization. 
The Petitioner stated she was awarded first pnze m the 2019 International 
Competition Series I I She also explained the competition is open to 
all instrumentalities and singers up to the age of 25, and the applicants are divided into seven age 
groups. The Petitioner also stated that she won first prize for the 2020 I !International 
Competition Service called! !which is open to all European instrumentalists 
and singers up to 25 years of age. As with the other awards the Petitioner received, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize 
winners in each age and instrument category, or other evidence related to the specific category in 
which she received an award. We cannot determine that the Petitioner's first prize awards for these 
two competitions are a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. 
The Petitioner stated she was awarded second prize overall at the 20201 I International Music 
Competition. She stated contestants are divided into four categories based on age. According to the 
submitted printout from I I website, the competition is open to contestants of all nationalities 
and countries up to 25 years of age, and the contestants are divided into four age groups. The Petitioner 
was one of seven contestants that won the second prize in her category of contestants up to the age of 
10 years old. The evidence does not document how many contestants participated in the 2020 
competition in the Petitioner's age group. In addition, as noted before, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize winners in each 
age and instrument category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which she received 
an award. We cannot determine that the Petitioner's first prize awards for these two competitions are 
a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. 
The Petitioner stated she won first prize in the 2020 
Competition. According to the submitted print out from the competition website, it is open to students 
of educational institutions implementing programs in the the field of musical art between the ages of 6 to 
18. Further, while these articles confirm that drew participants from outside the United States, 
the evidence does not establish that the competition awards nationally or internationally recognized 
pnzes. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
4 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends she is a member of the I 
The Petitioner stated that she is a soloist of the performance cantate choir of I I and became a 
member through an audition process. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the co-founder and artistic 
director of1 !stating that I lis a "unique, inclusive music enrichment program that welcomes 
a diverse group of children ages 8-18," and the organization has grown to seven choirs with over 350 
singers in its core program, and over 1,000 children in its afterschool program. The Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient evidence to establish thatl lis an "association." In addition, the evidence does 
not explain how the children are chosen to be in the core program or afterschool program. Without 
more evidence of the program and the requirements to enter the program, it is impossible to determine 
if it requires outstanding achievements of their members. Membership requirements based on activity 
in a given field or knowledge in a given field to be a member do not satisfy this criterion as such 
requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence to support the claim that the I I requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion since she was featured in a television ro ram 
the I in a segment that was 
The Petitioner stated that the website indicated that this program is 
"popular with up to 12,000 viewers weekly" in the ___ Florida area. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 
The Petitioner submitted printouts from the website indicating that 
onl I 2022, the Petitioner was profiled as a pianist on th show. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
5 
However, this evidence was accompanied by the requisite translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Nor 
did the Petitioner provide sufficient evidence to establish that l ________ qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner submitted information from the website stating that 
the Civic Association started producing a weekly video newscast in the 2017-2018 season with up to 
12,000 weekly viewers. However, the Petitioner did not provide any information regarding the current 
viewership of the show. Although the Petitioner claims that the program is popular in the Town of I land surrounding areas, she did not provide any farther, detailed information showing the 
status of the television program as a major medium. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24733936 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a judo and sambo athlete and coach who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was previously a sambo and judo athlete, and he now applies for this restrictive 
immigrant classification as a judo coach or instructor. He indicates he will work in that area in the 
United States. The Petitioner claims that he has received a major, internationally recognized award­
as a competitor-and he has satisfied the requisite number of regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. One-tirne Achievement 
The Petitioner claims that hisl I awarded at the World Sambo Championship is a 
major, internationally recognized award that constitutes a qualifying one-time achievement. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence purporting to be a 
major, internationally recognized award. 
Congress intended to restrict this immigrant classification to "that small percentage of individuals who 
have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a 
one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards 
qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. Given that the House Report 
specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement, examples of one-time 
awards which enjoy major, international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy 
Award, and (most relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The selection of Nobel Laureates, 
the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees, is a familiar name to the public at large and includes a large cash prize. 
While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement 
without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the alien's field as one of the top awards in 
that field. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his I I finish in his weight category at the World Sambo 
Championship in I including the official results of the competition as posted by the International 
2 
Sambo Federation, the international governing body of the sport. Although hisl I is a 
notable athletic achievement, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time 
achievement to be "a major, international[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner did not present 
evidence, for example, establishing that the competition is widely reported by international media, is 
recognized by the general public, or garners attention comparable to other major, globally recognized 
awards such as Academy Award winners. He provided evidence that his receipt of the award was 
covered by a sports publication in his native country of Tajikistan, but the record does not contain 
evidence of international coverage of this event. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his receipt of a ____ at the World 
Sambo Championships meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director decided that the Petitioner failed to satisfy any of the regulatory 
criteria associated with: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; or 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six of the regulatory criteria. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude not only that the Petitioner has failed to demonstrate eligibility, 
but we also observe a curious tactic he and his counsel appear to have employed that we will address 
after the final merits determination section of this decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Citing to Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002), the Director determined that 
competing and coaching are markedly different, and the Petitioner's coaching-related evidence and 
claims did not satisfy this criterion's requirements. We agree with this statement and note that awards 
a foreign national earns as a competitor generally cannot be relied upon to prove their extraordinary 
ability in coaching or instructing under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See Mussarova v. Garland, 562 F. 
Supp. 3d 837, 843-44 (C.D. Cal. 2022) (citing Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 918); see also Integrity 
Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. United States Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 131 F. 
Supp. 3d 721, 729-31 (S.D. Ohio 2015) (finding it appropriate to disregard distant claims and evidence 
as a competitor under the regulatory criteria when the foreign national is applying as a coach or 
instructor). This will be a recurring concept throughout this decision. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address this aspect of the Director's decision (i.e., he failed to 
identify a specific error in the Director's decision under this criterion) to demonstrate why we should 
consider his prizes or awards as a competitor as being in his "field of endeavor" as the regulation 
requires. The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the means to remedy 
what they perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a previous 
proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). By presenting only a generalized statement of eligibility 
without explaining the specific aspects of the Director's decision they consider to be incorrect, the 
affected party has failed to identify the basis for contesting this requirement on appeal. Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 
(BIA 2012) and finding when a filing party mentions an issue without developing an argument, the 
issue is deemed waived). The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director noted his memberships were based on his performance as an athlete, but because he claims 
eligibility for this restrictive immigrant classification as a coach or instrnctor, the evidence in the 
record fell short of satisfying the regulatory requirements. 
Within the appeal brief, the Petitioner revisits his claims regarding his memberships as a competitor 
but fails to address the Director's main point: his competitor-related memberships will not serve to 
satisfy the regulation because he is applying as a coach. As the Petitioner does not rebut the Director's 
primary basis for not granting this criterion, he has effectively abandoned or waived his claims to this 
criterion on appeal. O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility 
under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion suffer a similar outcome as the two above criteria; 
the Director made an adverse finding based on the claims and evidence relating to his acclaim as a 
competitor when he was applying as an instrnctor. And again on appeal, the Petitioner focuses on 
aspects that were not part of the Director's decision. Instead of addressing the competitor versus 
coaching aspect, the Petitioner focuses on regulatory requirements that were not included in the denial. 
In sum, he has effectively abandoned or waived his claims to this criterion on appeal. O-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. at 336 n.5. The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This criterion requires not only that the Petitioner was selected to serve as a judge, but also that the 
Petitioner is able to produce evidence that he actually participated as a judge. Additionally, these 
duties must have been directly judging the work of others in the same or an allied field in which the 
Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification within the present petition. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Before the Director in the initial filing, the Petitioner submitted one reference letter to support his 
eligibility under this criterion. The Director issued a request for additional evidence and in response, 
the Petitioner only reiterated his previous claims. After reviewing the entire record, we note an issue 
with the Petitioner's previous evidence he submitted under this criterion when he filed a previous 
appeal in September 2019. Within our decision on that appeal, we acknowledged two letters he 
submitted that contained conflicting information between the letters and with the Petitioner's own 
claims about his service as a judge of the work of others. The conflict related to the years he served 
as a judge (i.e. between 2006 and 2013 as opposed to between 2007 and 2009). Based on those 
incongrnities we determined the Petitioner did not satisfy his burden of proof. 
Instead of addressing those inconsistencies within the current petition filing and this appeal, to deal 
with the inconsistencies the Petitioner simply omitted one of the letters. In general, a Petitioner must 
ameliorate discrepant information in the record. Such a resolution should be demonstrated through 
the submission of relevant, independent, and objective evidence that reveals which facts are trne. See 
Matter of Ho, 19 T&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner has not remedied the 
previous inconsistency, we cannot ignore it here and it serves to significantly diminish the evidentiary 
value of his claims and evidence for this criterion within the current petition. 
It is permissible for us to consider significant similarities between statements submitted by petitioners 
in different proceedings. Matter of R-K-K-, 26 I&N Dec. 658,659 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland, 20 
F.4th 1049, 1054 (5th Cir. 2021); Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d 587, 592 (6th Cir. 2016) (finding that 
inter-application similarities can serve as a predominant basis for an adverse ruling, as long as the 
filing party is afforded an opportunity to explain them). Where the record contains more indications 
of questionable credibility in addition to dissimilarities between statements in the present and other 
cases, as long as U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) details the other inconsistencies, 
it is not always necessary to afford the filing party the opportunity to explain the questionable 
materials. Singh, 20 F .4th at l 054. Our dismissal of the Petitioner's September 2019 appeal placed 
him on notice that he should provide additional probative evidence to resolve the inconsistency 
between his claims and the letters. Here, we have again notified him that he must address and resolve 
this issue in any future filing, to include a motion he might file on this decision. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets six criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any of the criteria discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claims under the contributions or 
5 
leading or critical role requirements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds 
when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 
568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. FINAL MERITS DETERMINATION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. DUPLICATING CLAIMS FROM PREVIOUS PETITION 
We begin this section noting an important finding. The Petitioner's identical claims he presents within 
this appeal, were submitted in a separate appeal to this office in September 2019. We not only 
addressed the issues he raised in that brief in our dismissal of that appeal, but we also upheld that 
determination in a subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider. As a result, the Petitioner's arguments 
and evidence as presented in this appeal have already been litigated with this office and were found to 
be inadequate. 
A review of the current appeal brief and the brief he submitted with the September 2019 appeal, reveal 
they are identical-word-for-word-except the date and petition receipt number on the cover page, as 
well as counsel's signature on the final page. It appears the Petitioner's brief for this appeal was not 
tailored to the Director's decision on this petition, and instead was drafted to address the Director's 
August 2019 decision on a previous petition. While we will not go into detail of whether this 
constitutes a frivolous filing, it appears Petitioner's counsel drafted this brief and filed it with this 
office reflecting little or no attention to the specific factual or legal issues applicable to this case. Such 
a practice is not a proper means in which to file an appeal. 
6 
V. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25690671 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence 
requirements of this classification by demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, as well as five subsequent motions. The matter 
is now before us on a six motion, which is a motion to reopen. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof 
to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not satisfy 
the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. The issues here 
are whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant 
reopening our decision on his fifth motion. General support that a motion must first overcome the 
most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly 
discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one has to file a motion after the most 
recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses issues spanning topics from the Director's original 
denial to our decision on his fourth motion. But he does not address the content of our decision in 
response to his fifth motion, which he must mandatorily do first before we may move to consider any 
other eligibility factors. Our decision on his fifth motion boils down to a similar issue here. In that 
decision, he failed to first address the issues within our decision that preceded that motion. For this 
reason, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion dismissal 
through new evidence in this motion to reopen. 
We also address the numerous motion filings based on the original petition. Multiple motion filings 
serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration 
proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the 
United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. 
Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). USCIS has the 
latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create 
endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending 
to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should reopen the proceedings. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22602740 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tech author, journalist, and educator, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner contends that her field of extraordinary ability is technology-focused journalism with a 
focus on "tecklash" (backlash to technology), and she wrote a book geared toward academics that 
"examines the history and the powershifts and uncovers the root cause of the backlash against Big Tech." 
She also has made research findings regarding the impact of tech companies and how they should be 
regulated, and her tech journalism delves into issues related to the tech ecosystem . She last arrived in the 
United States in 2021 as an L-2 nonimmigrant, and she is a visiting research fellow at the University of _____________ School for Communication and Journalism. The Petitioner 
contends she has more than a decade of leadership in tech journalism and works as a teacher, lecturer, 
and journalist. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to published material 
about the individual in professional or major media and judging the work of others. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other 
claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's determination regarding the Petitioner's 
published material about the individual in professional or major media and her participation as a judge. 
For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the 
other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criterion 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
2 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
In her initial submission, the Petitioner submitted evidence of her: (1) participation in peer-reviewed 
conferences, together with copies of academic papers presented; and (2) academic and business speaking 
engagements, comprised of invited lectures, keynote address and guest lectures in seminars. 
In a request for evidence, the Director acknowledged the evidence submitted by the Petitioner but noted 
that evidence did not establish original contribution of major si nificance. In res onse to the Director's 
request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from of 
Journalism Innovation and Director of the 
_________ of Journalism, the Ci Professor stated in 
his letter he met the Petitioner when she contacted him while researching for her book and was 
"immensely impressed with her grasp of her subject, the thoroughness of her research, and the insight in 
her conclusion, which confirmed a shift in media coverage in technology -from practically utopian to 
nearly dystopian -that I had merely sensed." He also noted that he recommended her book often, 
convinced his podcast co-hosts to have her on as a guest for an entire episode, and recommended her to 
other media outlets for her reporting and commentary. He said that she will bring "invaluable evidence 
and perspective to policymakers in government and journalists in media." He also stated, "without 
equivocation that she is unique in the field and brings critically important contributions to it." 
The Petitioner also submitted an article that outlined the statement Professor made to the Senate 
Judiciary Subcommittee on __________________ whereby he urged the 
committee to read the Petitioner's book. The Petitioner claims that a testimonial and Senate statement by 
a world-renowned thought leader on the future of the news business who met the Petitioner in the course 
of her research is objective evidence that this criterion is satisfied. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from I I Director, USC Center for Public Relations, 
for Communication and Journalism, confirming that the Petitioner began her research 
fellowship at the University of I in 2017. He stated that the Petitioner's "tech 
background and understanding of cutting-edge innovation proved tremendously beneficial." He also 
stated that she made a significant contribution with her concept of tech crisis communication and her 
"analytical skills and findings add valuable data to one of the most debated issues in the U.S. and abroad." 
The Petitioner contends her work has considerable influence on the field of tech journalism and is 
"reflected by the measurable increase in the level of discourse arising from her contributions." She said 
she is a prolific writer and sought-after speaker and commentator in a large range of tech-journalism fora, 
and she has independent and creative thought. The Petitioner reiterates her participation in peer-reviewed 
3 
conferences, invited lectures and conference and guest lectures at seminars and academic colloquia in the 
field of tech journalism, and invitations to review academic papers. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends the Director erred when he stated that Professor I managed, employed, 
instructed, worked with or collaborated with the Petitioner. However, the letter from Professo 
stated that the Petitioner first contacted him in the course of her research, which culminated in her 
book and therefore it could be possible that the Petitioner and Professor collaborated in the 
book's writing. The Petitioner did not provide more information of her working relationship with 
Professor! I We will review the letter and discuss it below. 
The Petitioner contends that she submitted two testimonial letters that describe her original 
contributions to the field of tech journalism. The letters, however, do not contain detailed, specific 
information explaining how the Petitioner's leadership resulted in original contributions of 
major significance in the field; instead, the letters make broad statements. For instance, Professor 
stated that he was "immensely impressed with her grasp of her subject, the thoroughness of her 
research, and the insight in her conclusion," and she will bring "invaluable evidence and perspective 
to policymakers in government and journalists in media." These are vague and general statements and 
do not provide a true understanding of an ori inal contribution of major significance. In addition, 
while it is commendable that Professor recommended the Petitioner's book to the Senate 
Judiciary Subcommittee o ___________________ this does not provide 
evidence that her book presents an original contribution of major significance. Books can be 
recommended for many reasons such as ease for understanding a complex topic or for educational 
purposes but not necessarily proof of an original contribution of major significance. Furthermore, the 
testimonial froml I is also general and does not provide enough information to corroborate 
the general statements. For example, he states that the Petitioner made a significant contribution to 
my field with her concept of tech crisis communication but does not go into detail of how he came to 
that determination. 
The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her leadership has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 1 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 2 
Moreover, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the record contains evidence the Petitioner spoke at several peer-reviewed conferences and 
served as a panelist at conventions and seminars. However, the Petitioner did not show how her 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
2 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
speaking and panelist engagements resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. She 
did not demonstrate, for example, that her participation or contribution to the events influenced the 
field in a significant, major manner. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. While the Petitioner asserts that the 
significance of her contribution is reflected by their measurable increase to the level of discourse in 
the field, the record does not evidence ofreporting of her conferences and seminars. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
B. Reserved Issues 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has 
not met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required. Since the 
identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby 
reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether he seeks "to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" and whether his entry "will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States," under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii)-(iii) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N .D. Ill. 2002) ( finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24833125 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a television and motion picture producer who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
After deciding the Petitioner did not establish he had a major, internationally recognized award, nor 
did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, the Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition) . The matter is now before us 
on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the claimed criteria. 
Specifically, his claims and evidence were not adequate relating to the criteria associated with prizes 
or awards, published material, judging, display of the Petitioner's work, or performing in a leading or 
critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains they meet all five of the claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude he has not satisfied at least three regulatory 
criteria meaning it is unnecessary that we perform a final merits determination on his case. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director discussed the material he submitted and noted that one article appeared in several publications 
reflecting the material had a different author in each publication. The Director then questioned 
whether the Petitioner established who actually authored the article and surmised that it was 
self-promoting material that is generally not considered to be published material about a foreign 
national. The determination that self-promoting material is generally not considered to qualify under 
this criterion is supported by agency policy. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (discussing marketing materials). The Director also noted two 
separate articles in which the evidence did not reflect the author's name, which falls short of meeting 
this criterion's requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first addresses the evidence determined to be self-promoting material. Here, 
the Petitioner notes while these may be marketing materials, that does not disqualify them as sufficient 
evidence under this criterion. The Petitioner does not address USCIS policy indicating that this type 
of documentation will generally be insufficient. As a result, he has not met his burden under this 
criterion. 
2 
To address the Director's concerns about who actually authored any of the submitted articles, the 
Petitioner explains that the author of each article are the editors of the individual publications who 
decide whether to publish these promotional materials. First, the regulation requires qualifying 
evidence to include the author, and the Petitioner has not offered documentation that satisfies that 
requirement. The regulations have the force and effect oflaw and are binding on all USCIS employees, 
and we cannot simply ignore those requirements. MatterofL-, 20 I&N Dec. 553,556 (BIA 1992) (citing 
to Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U.S. 135, 153 ( 1945). So, setting aside the regulatory requirement that 
evidence include the author is not permissible. 
Second, the Petitioner's explanation does not adequately address one of the Director's concerns, that 
the Petitioner presented evidence containing inconsistencies. The Petitioner must resolve inconsistent 
information in the record. Such a correction should be demonstrated through the submission of 
relevant, independent, and objective evidence that reveals which information is the truth. See Matter 
of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). For this reason alone, the Petitioner's arguments on 
appeal will not prevail as the author of the material is not only required by the regulation but it is also 
material to eligibility. 
Third, the record lacks adequate support for the Petitioner's contention that all articles any publication 
publishes that lacks an individual author-especially relating to marketing materials-is authored by 
the editorial board. While this could be the case in some instances, for example the editorial board of 
a newspaper publishing an editorial article giving the editors' opinions, even the Petitioner's appeal 
brief admits the material in question is "self-promotional material" and that does not equate to an 
editorial article in a newspaper or periodical. 
When applying for an immigration benefit, filing parties take on additional burdens as prescribed in 
several authorities (statutes, regulations, policy, etc.) that might not be present for the general public 
in other situations. For example, for someone in the general public to show they have been the subject 
of media coverage, they only need to possess proof of the coverage. However, those applying to be 
classified as an alien with extraordinary abilities, they must document that the coverage was about 
them, in a particular type of publication, and they have to show several aspects about the material 
itself. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Director erred in their adverse determination, nor 
has he satisfied his burden under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner only claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his 
performance at a talent festival. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion and concluded the evidence indicated he judged persons in an unrelated 
field instead of in his or an allied field. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's analysis or 
findings on appeal and instead shifts the focus of his claim to how his work as a television program 
producer qualifies him under this criterion. 
Filing parties should develop the record for their claims before the lower adjudicative body because 
this affords the lower entity to apply its expertise on the matter in the first instance, giving the appellate 
3 
entity some reasoning to review. New assertions advanced for the first time to an administrative 
appellate body are not properly before us. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021) 
(refusing to consider an appellant's humanitarian claims that were presented for the first time on 
appeal). An appellant may not fill in the gaps in their previous arguments by presenting new arguments 
or material for the record that was not presented to the lower entity. Chamu v. US. Att 'y Gen., 23 F .4th 
1325, 1332 (11th Cir. 2022). As the Petitioner did not offer this argument to the Director, the Director 
could not have erred on this issue and his new claims will not factor into our decision here. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it 
was leading or critical for organizations or establishments as a whole. 
Ultimately, the leading or the critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization that enjoys 
a distinguished reputation, rather than for a subordinate group. See Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 
3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments 
that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed his role for lthe entity for which he works as a producer. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he 
did not show this entity had a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that because I I is responsible for interviewing two respected artists in Latin America, this 
"evidences its reputation in the industry." He further posits that because the organization has been the 
subject of media and trade publication articles, this supports the fact that it has a distinguished 
reputation. Finally, he states that the organization's work appearing on television networks should 
lead us to find in his favor relating tol I reputation. 
Simply performing an interview of a respected artist or public figure does not transform an entity into 
one that enjoys a distinguished reputation. As USCIS policy requires, the organization or 
establishment should be marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence, or alternatively being proper 
for an eminent person. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. And the Petitioner does 
not explain how the Director erred by not finding the media and trade publication articles to 
sufficiently aid his eligibility claims under this criterion. 
We are also not persuaded by the Petitioner's view that a production company whose work appears on 
television networks should be considered distinguished simply through the act of the network's 
agreement to broadcast their content. This view does not take into account that lesser film and 
television production companies have productions that appeared on network television. Simply having 
4 
an organization's content broadcast falls short of demonstrating that company is marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. 
The regulation and agency policy require the production of evidence that preponderantly satisfies the 
attendant requirements. As a result, the Petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial burden 
of production, as well as the ultimate burden of persuasion. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 
n.3 (BIA 1998). The Petitioner cannot simply assert that an organization enjoys a distinguished 
reputation based on a factor without offering evidence that adequately supports those claims. Again, 
here the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets five criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any of the criteria discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claims relating to awards or the 
display of his work. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when 
another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 
576-77 n. l O (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24846831 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . She claims to be in the field 
of "digital media strategy and operations field." This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification through presentation of evidence of either 
a one-time achievement or showing that she meets at least three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of 
evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h )(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In the decision denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner had satisfied two criteria by submitting: evidence of her authorship of scholarly articles in 
the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media; and evidence that she has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also 
meets three additional evidentiary criteria, which we will discuss below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date. and authorofthe material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she has offered four ieces of materials that satisf this criterion. 
These materials are: 1 published on 
metronews.ru; 2 ublished on vc.ru; 
(3) _____ 
ublished on vc.ruand 4 ____________ _________________ ___,published by 
The Petitioner has also presented documentation relating to the 
publication Metro, vc.ru, and 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The first 
material, documents the Petitioner's answers 
2 
to questions about her personal and educational background, as well as her professional experience. 
It does not include an author of the material, as required undertheregulation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
claims that the author is "Metro News Russia,"which she also lists as the name of the publication. She 
has not demonstrated that the name of the publication satisfies the regulatory requirement of including 
the author of the material. 
Additionally, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence showing that metronews.ru qualifies 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. While she has offered material 
about Metro, the print version of the publication, she has not provided information on metronews.ru, 
the digital platform where I I appears. Moreover, 
although the evidence the Petitioner has submitted indicates that Metro, the print version, is "the 
largest daily newspaper in Moscow," its "editions are published in 18 countries in over 65 major 
cities," and has a daily readership of 668,000, the record lacks other evidence confinning that Metro's 
circulation and readership level, as compared to other publications, is indicative of the publication's 
status as major media. 
The materials posted on vc.ru also do not satisfy this criterion . 
includes an opening sentence stating that the Petitioner is al 
and works as the ________________ 
1 The material then discusses from a first-oerson oersoective the Petitioner's work and 
how she manages her teams remotely. ____ 
similarly notes in its opening that the Petitioner is al Petitioner is a I and that she I 
I While the Petitioner claims on appeal that another 
person had authored these materials, a review of the materials does not supp ort this contention. Rather, 
a review of the materials reveals that she had written these pieces discussing her work and offering 
advice to other managers. The Petitioner has not established that these self-authored and self­
promotional pieces qualify as published material about her, relating to her work in the field for which 
classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that these materials were ublished in a rofessional 
or major trade publication or other ma· or media. I I received 517 views, 
received 1,974 views. The Petitioner also offers an online printout from vc.ru, claiming that it is "the 
largest platform in RuN et for entrepreneurs and highly qualified specialists of small, medium and large 
companies." According to another on line printout from SimilarWeb, vc.ru is ranked 5,946 globally, 
300 in Russia, and 15 in the "Computers Electronics and Technology, Other Computers Electronics 
and Technology" category in Russia. The evidence, including the number of views each piece 
received, the ranking of vc.ru, and the nature of the publication, is not sufficient to confirm that it 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not sufficient! shown that satisfies this criterion. 
According to ___________________ she "participated in a number of 
large-scale studies in the field of media and communications," which led to the publication ofl I 
I I published by The material, as suggested by its title, is about trend forecasting, and it 
includes quotes from the Petitioner discussing findings of the studies. Other than noting her position 
3 
as ________ the material does not include other information about the Petitioner. 
While this material, a report on study findings, might satisfy the authorship criterion under 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vi), it does not qualify as published material about the Petitioner, relating to her work in 
the field for which classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, relating to her work in the field of digital media 
strategy and operations. The Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h )(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the alien's original sdent[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On a eal the Petitioner alle es that she satisfies this criterion based on the work she erformed for 
She claims that she has offered "testimonial letters from seven 
experts in the field, all of which corroborated that she is responsible for original business-related 
contributions and that her contributions are of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, 
the Petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions, but also that those 
contributions have been of major significance in the digital media strategy and operations field. For 
example, a petitioner may submit evidence confirming that her contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field,have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance. In this case, the record does not support the Petitioner's 
contention that she has met this criterion. 
The reference letters as well as other evidence in the record indicate that the Petitioner is a capable 
individual and a valued member of her former and current employers' staff, but they do not sufficiently 
establish that her accomplishments constitute original contributions of major significance in the field 
of digital media strategy and operations. The Petitioner has offered letters from her current and former 
employers and coworkers. In an August 2022 letter, the chief executive officer of I 
to whom the Petitioner reports while working in her position as chief of staff, lists the Petitioner's 
duties and responsibilities in the company, and notes that the company "relies on [her] expertise" for 
its business operation and expansion. In a March 2021 letter, a "Partner, Strategy & 0 erations 
Consulting at I loffice," lists the Petitioner's revious work fo and her 
accomplishments for its clients includin 
________________ _____ In a February 2021 letter, a "Senior 
Manager Advisory, Strategy & Operations at ______ __,office," discusses the Petitioner's 
work at and the services she provided its clients. Similarly, in a March 2021 letter, a "self­
employed Media/Entertainment/Tech Business Development and Strategy Consultant," who worked 
with the Petitioner at !describes the Petitioner's work for I clients. These letters, however, 
do not specify what the Petitioner has accomplished that is original, such that she is one of the first 
people to have completed the task, and they do not establish that her work has risen to a level of major 
significance in the field, such that her strategies or methods have been widely implemented throughout 
the field. 
The record includes otherref erence letters. In a November2021 letter, the chairperson of 
(a mobile gaming development studio and publisher) states that the Petitioner "has established herself 
4 
as an individual of extraordinary ability in the ... field based on her employment in leading and critical 
capacities with I I The individual claims that the 
Petitioner "has executed ori inal di ital media strate ies erational efficiencies for 
In a February 2021 letter, the chief executive officer of ____ (a business that "transforms 
any business into a fully automated digital brand") alle es that the Petitioner "introduced novel di ital 
media strate · es and o erational efficiencies for 
In a February 2021 letter, a former 
chief executive officer for confirms the value of the Petitioner's work for the 
company, claiming her work "is original and significant to the digital media strategy and operations 
[field] because it represents an entirely new digital ecosystem for Russian media assets." The letter 
then explains that the Petitioner's work "put [the company] in a position to cover the entire media 
chain -from strategy to content creation to distribution"; that her strategy "allow[ ed the company] to 
track the customer journey and communicate with the customer every step in the media chain"; and 
that she suggested "add[ing] to [the company's] media ecosystem by adopting an online streaming 
service" with a "programing recommendation system." Some of the reference letters, including letters 
from the chair erson of land the chief executive officer of I discuss her 
work with notin that she "oen ed a new office in Pakistan and introduce[ed the] 
company's __________ Other letters, including the letters from 
individuals who worked at rovide that the Petitioner helped llauncha video-on-demand 
service, and she introduced to a dynamic pricing model to attract moviegoers. 
These letters, although detail the Petitioner's projects and explain their value to various businesses, do 
not demonstrate the purported originality of her work, or show that her strategies and methods have 
significantly impacted the field as a whole. For example, the letters do not explain how opening anew 
international office, introducing a customer service initiative, launching a video-on-demand service, 
or a dynamic pricing model is original. The letters also do not sufficiently establish that her projects 
impacted the field in a significant way, such that others in the field have widely implemented her 
strategies and methods. As noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner must show that her 
contributions are original and have "reach[ed] beyond [her] employer and its customers/clients." 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
In short, the Petitioner has not shown, through the reference letters or other evidence in the record, 
that her work is original or its impact has reached a level of major significance in the field of digital 
media strategy and operations. The opinions of the references are not without weight and have been 
reviewed and considered. For the reasons we have discussed above, however, the letters and other 
evidence in the record fail to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major 
significance" in the field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, 
use advisory opinions and statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of 
reference letters supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we 
have in this case, evaluate the contents of those letters as to whether they support the individual's 
eligibility. See id. at 795-96. Thus, the contents of the references' statements are important 
considerations. The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the 
5 
Petitioner's work is original or has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or 
has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance. As such, she has not 
demonstrated that she meets this criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signfficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she has satisfied this criterion. She points to documentation 
relating to earnings of operations research analysts to support her position that she has commanded a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. The 
record includes her 2021 Wage and Tax Statements (Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-2), 
indicating that she received approximately$ 72,211 in wages froml land approximately 
$11,440 in wages froml I Page 4 of her petition lists her job title as "Chief of Staff," 
and notes that she receives $150,000 a year in wages. In an April 2022 letter, states 
that the Petitioner's annual base salary would be increased from $150,000 to $200,000 beginning in 
May 2022, and that the company awarded her a $20,000 bonus. In a June 2022 letter.I 
provides that"[ s ]ubject to approval by the Company's Board of Directors," it was offering her 
stock options. In her response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted an 
amended page 4 of the petition, claiming that her title remains "Chief of Staff," but that her salary has 
been increased to $200,000 per year. The Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence showing that 
she meets this criterion. 
As the Director noted in the decision, under 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b ), a petitioner "must establish that he 
or she is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to 
be eligible through adjudication." As such, the Petitioner must show that at the time she filed the 
petition, in April 2022, she was eligible for the classification and satisfied the criterion. Therefore, 
she cannot rely on evidence showing that she received a raise in May 2022 or documents relating to 
her higher level of compensation to satisfy this criterion. 
Additionally, the Petitioner has offered comparative evidence on individuals who are "operations 
research analysts," while the petition indicates that her title is "chief of staff." The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that these two positions are sufficiently similar, such that she can rely on earning 
evidence concerning "operations research analysts" to show that she, as a chief of staff, has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in 
the field. According to an April 2022 letter from her employer, as a chief of staff, the Petitioner is 
responsible for the company's "digital media strategies, growth strategies, tech no logy adoptions, sales, 
operations and management processes" and she is "vested with ultimate authority to direct and 
coordinate change management initiatives, budget and financial planning, and project management in 
the areas of digital media strategies, business strategies and analytics, and corporate communications." 
The letter further notes that the Petitioner "is responsible for managing the organization's expansion 
budget, annual operating plan, and customer engagement initiatives" and that she "possesses broad 
authority to evaluate the organization's performance to determine areas of potential cost reduction, 
process improvement and policy changes." The letter illustrates that the Petitioner has a certain level 
of management responsibility and authority to direct the operation of the business. She, however, has 
not demonstrated that operations research analysts also have these duties. As such, she has not shown 
that information about operations research analysts' earning is appropriate comparative evidence. 
6 
Moreover, according to materials the Petitioner has presented from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as 
well as careeronestop.org, the highest 10 percent of operations research analysts earn more than 
$160,850 a year. The Petitioner, as a chief of staff, earned $150,000 a year in salary when she filed 
the petition. Even if we were to accept that her position and the position of an operations research 
analyst are sufficiently similar for comparative purposes, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her 
earning is high enough to satisfy the criterion. 
Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that she has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. She has 
not met the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we note that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of digital media strategy and 
operations. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she contributed to the success of her former and current employers and to the 
success of their clients. But the Petitioner has not shown that her accomplishments rise to the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Section 203(6 )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility to be classified as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field of digital media strategy and operations. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25692485 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a professor at a foreign research university who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a lengthy career in the bioengineering and nanotechnology field. He received his 
Ph.D. in industrial chemistry and became a professor at a research university approximately a decade 
later, a position he continues to hold. 
A Translation Certifications 
We begin noting a deficiency in some evidence in the record relating to documents that originate in a 
foreign language. "Petitioners and applicants for immigration benefits are required by regulation to 
provide certified English translations of any foreign language documents they submit." Matter of 
Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550,551 (BIA 1976) (citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b), now promulgated at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3)) which states "[aa ]ny document containing foreign language submitted to U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCTS) shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which 
the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
The language utilized within the regulation implicitly precludes a single certification that validates several 
translated forms of evidence unless the certification specifically lists the translated documents. Without 
a single translator's certification for each foreign language form of evidence, or a translator's certification 
specifically listing the documents it is validating, the certification cannot be regarded to be certifying any 
specific form of evidence. The final determination of whether evidence meets the plain language 
requirements of a regulation lies with USCTS. See Matter of Caron International, 19 T&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988) (finding the appropriate entity to determine eligibility is USCIS). 
Reviewing the certifying documents relating to the Petitioner's evidence in his response to the Director's 
request for evidence, those instruments appear to be a single blanket certification document. As noted 
above, the regulation does not contain any provision that allows for such a blanket translation 
certificate. The submission of a single translation certification that does not identify the document or 
documents it purportedly accompanies, does not meet the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). Such a deficiency in the certification results in the evidence accompanied by these 
translations to possess diminished value and are insufficient to demonstrate the validity of the foreign 
language materials. 
2 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided the Petitioner satisfied one criterion relating to authorship of scholarly articles, 
but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or awards, original contributions, or leading 
or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the evidentiary criteria relating to 
awards and contributions of major significance. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude he has satisfied the scholarly articles regulation, but he has not met at least three total criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner initially claimed several prizes or awards, but after the Director did not find in his favor 
on this issue, he has pared back his claims to two awards within the appeal. Both the awards the 
Petitioner claims on appeal are primarily accompanied by evidence originating in a foreign language 
and their translations have a deficient certification that is not in accord with the regulation. Without 
properly certified translations, it would serve no purpose for us to evaluate the majority of the evidence 
to determine whether the Petitioner would otherwise satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
We close this discussion noting the identified 2019 innovation award may be considered as a 
noteworthy achievement, were it to name the Petitioner. But it does not. The award was issued for a 
particular designed device, and it was awarded to the Petitioner's university where he serves as a 
professor. Like an employer-received award where a candidate participated as part of a group project 
that earned the accolades, an award bestowed upon a team generally does not meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion that requires "the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
While exceptions to this may exist, the Petitioner does not develop his position here of why he should 
be considered to be this accolade's recipient. Additionally, the award was issued for a specific device 
design -identified as a self-powered emergency signal aqua suit-and how that innovation would be 
used in real-world situations. While the Petitioner claims a technology that is embedded within this 
award-winning device is attributable to him, he did not demonstrate the award was issued for that 
embedded technology as opposed to the device as it was presented at the competition and how the 
overall device would be used in the real world. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion but did not continue to assert those 
claims when he responded to the Director's request for evidence. In their decision, the Director 
discussed the evidence submitted for this criterion and found that the Petitioner did not establish his 
eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings for this criterion or offer 
additional arguments. For these reasons, the Petitioner has abandoned his eligibility claims under this 
criterion. Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding arguments not 
raised on appeal are abandoned). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence 
under this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets three criteria within the appeal, because his 
arguments fail on any single criterion discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the 
required number of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed 
elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 
U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent 
issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 
2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24323456 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sombo and judo champion , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement , that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner competes in the two martial arts disciplines of sombo wrestling and judo. The Petitioner 
outlined his achievements to include, in part, winning the I lat the World Sombo Championship 
in and obtaining! in the Judo International Tournament in The Petitioner stated 
that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have been recognized on 
both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of 
these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to the receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor and 
for published material about the Petitioner in professional or major media. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the two criteria that the Petitioner met. 
But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criterion 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed membership in three organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's material, 
the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he did not 
establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the memberships he has attained qualify under this 
criterion. 
2 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
First, we consider the International Judo Federation (IJF). The Petitioner submitted a copy of his 
official IJF identification card, which states the "bearer of this Identification Card is authorized to 
participate in all UF organized events during its validity." The Petitioner also presented a printout 
from IJF' s website listing the Petitioner as an active judo world circuit judoka. Further, the Petitioner 
submitted evidence of how countries can become members of the IJF and statutory provisions for the 
IJF member national federations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the IJF is an International Olympic Committee recognized 
official International Federation for Judo and is responsible for the integrity of their sport on the 
international level. While we acknowledge that the IJF is an international association, the Petitioner 
did not provide sufficient evidence regarding the eligibility requirements for becoming a member of 
the IJF. Although the Petitioner provided some information regarding the federations' membership, 
it is not clear how members are eligible to join. The submitted documentation does not show that IJF 
utilized national or international recognized experts to judge the achievement of prospective members 
to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that IJF used this 
outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. Each of these are mandatory 
requirements within the regulation. 
The Petitioner also provided a copy of his membership card from USA Judo. However, the Petitioner 
did not provide any evidence of the eligibility requirements to become a member of USA Judo. The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the claim that USA Judo requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner further provided a copy of his membership cards from the Republic of Moldova 
I titling him as an I I ___________ 
I The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the State Secretary of the The Petitioner lof the Republic of Moldova confirming that the Petitioner of was granted these titles. In addition, the state secretary indicated the "Unique Sports Classification of 
the Republic of Moldova is a statutory document in the domain of physical training and sports, which 
states requirements and regulations necessary for conferral of sportive titles and categories in the 
Republic of Moldova, as well as conditions for their fulfilment." The letter lists the Moldovan statutes 
for granting these titles to an individual. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that Moldova has a statutory 
requirement to obtain these titles and an individual cannot pay a fee or win an event to obtain this 
distinction. However, the Petitioner did not provide a copy of the statutes outlining these titles' 
eligibility requirements, or any other corroborating evidence regarding the eligibility requirements to 
obtain these titles. Absent from the evidence is a showing that the Republic of Moldova! I I !utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements 
of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding, and an indication that it 
this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. It is insufficient to allege 
3 
eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves 
the allegation. 1 
On appeal the Petitioner does not explain how any of the organizations require outstanding 
achievements as one of the minimum requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 2 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
1 Matter of Ho, 22 T&N Dec. 206, 213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); I 756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25801610 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial three required evidentiary criteria. We agreed with the Director's decision 
and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. We also dismissed the combined motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider on the same grounds. The matter is now before us again on a combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions.1 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration; be 
supported by any pertinent precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy; and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Further, the review of any motion is 
narrowed to the basis for the prior adverse decision. Accordingly, we will examine any new facts and 
1 The Petitioner is also requesting oral argument because he believes his arguments have not been adequately addressed in 
writing by the previous decisions. The regulations provide that the requesting party must explain in writing why oral 
argument is necessary. Furthermore , U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has the sole authority to grant 
or deny a request for oral argument and will grant argument only in cases involving unique factors or issues of law that 
cannot be adequately addressed in writing. See 8 C.P.R. § 103.3(b). In this instance, the Petitioner has not identified any 
unique factors or issues of law to be resolved. Further, we are not persuaded that the reasons for the Petitioner's request 
are sufficient to demonstrate the necessity for an oral argument. Moreover , the written record of proceedings, including 
the Petitioner's briefs on appeal and on motion, fully represents the facts and issues in this matter. Consequently , the 
request for oral argument is denied. 
arguments to the extent that they pertain to our most recent decision, the dismissal of the prior 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner continues to assert that his work has sustained national and 
international acclaim and that his work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the music 
and entertainment industry. He further states that he has presented extensive documentation and 
evidence on appeal and on motion to satisfy at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. In 
support of his assertions, the Petitioner submits a news article by Novascience, dated 2019, 
which confirms that he attended the masterclass by the Here, the news 
article does not state a new fact. We have previously acknowledged and discussed the Petitioner's 
masterclass with I I in our appeal dismissal and concluded that he did not establish that 
attending such a class is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Since the current motion to reopen does not include new 
facts or new evidence, the motion does not meet the requirement of a motion to reopen and must be 
dismissed. 
The Petitioner has also not demonstrated any error of fact or law in our dismissal of the prior motion. 
The Petitioner argues that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy 
because we did not adequately address the 2022 Rolling Stone article. The Petitioner asserts that this 
article is additional evidence that his work is of "major significance in the field" and, therefore, he 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(v). As discussed in our prior decision, the 2022 Rolling 
Stone article does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing in 2021 as the article is 
from 2022. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the article and find that it 
does not satisfy the "contributions of major significance in the field" criterion. The article outlines 
the Petitioner's career and mentions his accomplishments in the music industry, which we have already 
addressed in our prior decisions. As previously noted, although the Petitioner's work has had influence 
on individuals in the music and entertainment industry, he has not established that the impact of his 
music rises to the level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not established that we 
misapplied law or policy and that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the decision. Thus, we will also dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23078392 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have 
reviewed and considered each one. The Petitioner claimed he met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the foreign national in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in major media; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High salary or remuneration for services 
The Director found the Petitioner met the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles and 
performing in a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with 
published material about the foreign national, original contributions of major significance, display at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases, and high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets each of the criteria in which the Director found in the negative. We agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner satisfied the leading or critical role and the authorship of scholarly articles 
criteria. Additionally, we conclude that the Petitioner has also satisfied the high salary or remuneration 
criterion. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.1 The Petitioner provided his 2020 
W-2 statement showing that he earned $494,749. On the Form l-140A, the Petitioner describes his 
position as "[w]orks with companies on political & economic risk and market access overseas and 
assists with high-level commercial and political negotiations." The Petitioner's employer further 
described the Petitioner's work as "advising U.S. companies with investments in [Mexico and I I 
... to help them navigate sensitive cultural issues and assess risk in changing economic and political 
frameworks." His employer also stated that the Petitioner offers the media "commentary on matters 
related to land its commercial and diplomatic relations or with respect to the US-Mexico bilateral 
relationship and the complex issues it encompasses." 
The U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) Occupational Outlook Handbook (Handbook) states that 
economists "evaluate economic issues for resources, goods, and services ... [r]esearch in economic 
issues ... [i]nterpret and forecast market trends ... [r]ecommend solutions to economic problems ... 
[and] [w]rite for academic journals or other media."2 The Handbook also states that: 
Economists working for corporations help managers and decisionmakers understand 
how the economy will affect their business. Specifically, economists may analyze 
issues ... to help a company maximize its profits ... Economists also work for 
international organizations, research firms, and think tanks, where they study and 
analyze a variety of economic issues. Their analyses and forecasts are frequently 
published in newspapers and journals. 
Based on the evidence provided, we agree that the Petitioner's position can be accurately described as 
an "economist."3 The record demonstrates that the Petitioner also has relevant experience in trade, 
politics, foreign policy, and diplomacy; however, this additional experience does not detract from or 
lessen his role as an economist at a private international organization. We conclude that the Petitioner 
provided sufficient evidence and analysis to support a finding that his position most closely 
approximates an "economist." 
The Petitioner provided evidence that his earnings were more than three times the amount of a Level 
IV economist's wage in the Petitioner's geographical area for the year 2020.4 Therefore, we conclude 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
2 The Handbook is an informative source on the duties and educational requirements of the wide variety of occupations. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dep't of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, may be accessed at 
https://www.bls.gov. We do not, however, maintain that the Handbook is the exclusive source of relevant information. 
3 In addition to "economist," the Petitioner's position also appears to have overlap with the Handbook occupation of 
"political scientist." However, the DOL's Foreign Labor Certification Online Wage Library reflects that the higher 
prevailing wage in the Petitioner's geographical area corresponds to the "economist" occupation. For more information, 
visit https://flcdatacenter.com/OESWizardStart.aspx. 
4 A wage determination starts with an entry-level wage (Level I) and progresses to a higher wage level (up to Level IV) 
after considering the experience, education, and skill requirements of the job opportunity. U.S. Dep't of Labor, Emp't & 
Training Admin., Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance, Nonagric. Immigration Programs (rev. Nov. 2009), 
available at http://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_11_2009.pdf. 
3 
that by a preponderance of the evidence, the Petitioner has established he meets the basic parameters 
of the evidence applicable to this criterion. 5 As the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements 
of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary that we discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to 
the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence. Accordingly, we will evaluate whether he 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he sustained national or international 
acclaim, is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary abi I ity in the field of 
endeavor.6 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has sufficiently shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's degree in foreign service from I u I University and a 
master's degree in public policy from University. He served as Mexico'sl I I for six years and prior to that, as Mexico's Consul General inl !Texas. The record reflects 
various media, such as The New Yorker and The Wall Street Journal, have consulted him for his 
perspective on trade and politics between the United States, Mexico, and I I The Petitioner 
provided testimonial letters from Mexico's former president, Felipe Calderon, a former Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs, and multiple retired high-ranking U.S. diplomats. The authors of the letters provided 
sufficient detail concerning his knowledge, experience, reputation, and skill in the field. They 
highlighted the success of various trade deals executed between I I and Mexico during the 
Petitioner's tenure as Mexico's,__ ______ and attributed these successful outcomes to the 
Petitioner's expertise. The Petitioner published articles concerning foreign policy, politics, and trade 
in media such as The Atlantic, Politico, and Foreign Policy Magazine, as well as a chapter in a book 
the Brookings Institute published. The evidence further reflects that the Petitioner spoke at 
conferences and events for well reputed organizations and universities. 
His employer describes him as a "highly esteemed authority on trade and diplomacy" and explained 
that he has "profound understanding ofl I foreign policy and trade relationships with the United 
States." His employer wrote that: 
[O]ur firm was able to secure important contracts with major I I multinational 
corporations. He has provided their leadership with a nuanced understanding of the 
5 The regulatory language requires that the salary must be high, or the remuneration must be significantly high in relation 
to others in the field. Whether the Petitioner's W-2 earnings are categorized as a straight salary or in terms of a base salary 
with bonuses, we conclude that the evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner earns a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
6 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adiudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy Memo), https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
4 
various cultural, regulatory, and communications challenges they face in the U.S. 
market and has been key in facilitating their multi-billion dollar investments in the 
logistics and tourism sectors in the United States, including in a Fortune 500 company. 
Accordingly, the evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner's personal and professional 
achievements rise to the level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress.7 Considering the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his national and 
international acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field, the 
record reflects that he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. In addition, the totality of the evidence reflects that the 
Petitioner has sustained acclaim for many years and across employment in multiple positions. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He also demonstrated his sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The Petitioner therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
7 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23041135 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Beneficiary, a product manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a doctoral degree in "real time, robotic, and automated informatics" from I I of Paris and currently serves as a product manager working on 
artificial intelligence projects for the Petitioner. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner initially claimed the Beneficiary met six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Performing a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. 
The Director found the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to prizes or awards and to a leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations, but that the Beneficiary had not satisfied the criteria 
associated with membership, published material, original contributions, or authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert that the Beneficiary is a member of an association 
2 
that requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by national or international experts.1 
However, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary meets each of the other criteria in which the 
Director found in the negative. Upon review, we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary has 
satisfied the prizes or awards and the leading or critical role criteria. Additionally, we conclude that 
the Beneficiary has also satisfied the authorship of scholarly articles criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media."2 In general, it should have 
footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.3 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.4 
The Petitioner provided evidence of numerous conferences and symposiums in which the Beneficiary 
participated. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) hosted most of the 
conferences and symposiums from content published in its digital library. The IEEE website states 
that it publishes research and is "a professional association for electronic engineering and electrical 
engineering." The Beneficiary's subfield of artificial intelligence (Al) and robotics is within the 
association's electronic and electrical engineering focus. Therefore, IEEE's published material could 
be considered a professional publication. Accordingly, the record suggests that the Petitioner meets 
the basic parameters applicable to evidence under this criterion. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Beneficiary satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Beneficiary has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requ1s1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final 
merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
1 The AAO generally does not address issues that are not raised with specificity on appeal. Issues or claims that are not 
raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. 
2 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id at 9. 
4 Id. 
3 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor.5 In this matter, we determine that the Beneficiary has not shown his eligibility. 
The Beneficiary is a product manager based inl I Pennsylvania. He attained a master's degree 
in control systems from the University of I land a doctoral degree in real time, robotic, and 
automated informatics from the of Paris. He began his career 
working for where he contributed to the creation of two robots! J 
I I acquired and continued the commercialization of D The record reflects that universities and other researchers in the field utilize both 
to conduct further research. In addition, various retail, restaurant, airport, hospital, and hotel 
businesses use I I robots to improve their service. The Beneficiary co-founded a company, I lwhich develops commercial Al products that allow retail stores to automate certain service 
functions. Currently, the Beneficiary works for the Petitioner, a company focused on developing the 
Al systems used in self-driving cars. The Beneficiary garnered awards, performed in a leading critical 
role, and is a named inventor on at least five published patents. Media outlets have interviewed the 
Beneficiary about his company and the Al perception system he helped create. The record, however, 
does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's personal and professional achievements rise to a level of 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 6 
The Petitioner provided evidence of two awards or prizes that satisfy criterion (i). The record reflects 
the Beneficiary received a 20161 I for the development of software building blocks to add 
smart features to connected devices. The French Ministry ofl I I I in partnership with a French public investment bank, finances I I which is a 
competition to promote the best research and development projects for the finalization of innovative 
technological products. Selected laureates for this competition "must have defined the concept of their 
product and be about to create a company, or have just created it." The laureates' academic level is 
high andl I estimates that over 90% of applicants studied five years or more and 40% hold a PhD. 
The record indicates that t the winners of the competition receive a cash subsidy in furtherance of their 
project. In 2016,L__Jselected 56 winners from among 347 candidates. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that in 2016, I I won a Digital Innovation competition 
award. The Commissariat General for Investment in conjunction with the Investment Program of the 
Future supervises the competition, which accepts applications continuously from companies based in 
France. The competition seeks to "accelerate and amplify developmental projects for innovative 
products or services based on digital technologies." The 2016 competition edition accepted 79 
5 See section 203(b){l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See generally 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
6 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
4 
proposals and awarded loans to 19 winners. The record reflects that the Beneficiary's company and 
two other companies received a loan in the category of _____ 
While we acknowledge these awards as meeting the basic parameters applicable to evidence under 
this criterion, the 2016 land Digital Innovations awards do not sufficiently reflect sustained 
national or international acclaim, that the Beneficiary is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the Al and robotics field, or that his achievements have been recognized in this field. Rather, the 
awards appear to be for excellence in innovation and/or entrepreneurship. Although innovation and 
entrepreneurship may be byproducts of his work, the Beneficiary's claimed field of extraordinary 
ability is not innovation or entrepreneurship specifically. As such, the evidence does not sufficiently 
establish that he received an award commensurate with those among the top of his field. Furthermore, 
the record reflects that the Beneficiary won the awards in 2016 and in conjunction with founding his 
company. The record does not show that the Beneficiary won awards in the field of Al or robotics 
independent of creating a new startup, nor does the evidence sufficiently describe the specific technology 
or services the Beneficiary's company offers.7 
The Petitioner provided documentation of the Beneficiary's receipt of other awards. However, the record 
lacks sufficient evidence with which to establish how the awards meet the basic parameters of the 
criterion. To illustrate, the Petitioner submitted evidence of a tax-free tech-startup loan, which he 
received from I lfor winning a contest. The record includes evidence that in 2016, I !awarded a loan to seven startups in the month ofl !awarded the loans after 
contestants gave a one and half minute "pitch" of their idea. The documentation provided does not 
indicate how often I I awards loans (monthly, yearly, or otherwise), how many entrants or 
candidates it considers, or other entry requirement details. The competition appears to be open only 
to those in the Paris region and therefore the record does not demonstrate that thel loan is 
a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary received a 2018 I I Retail Award;" 
however, the record does not include sufficient details about the award to draw any conclusions 
concerning the national or international recognition of it. The0Retail Award is a free competition 
for the purpose of identifying companies that offer solutions to issues that e-commerce, retailers, and 
brands face. It is unclear who the competition is open to, but the name suggests that it is open to those 
irl I The documentation does not indicate that the Beneficiary received the award for excellence 
in his field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Director explained that the published material must be about the 
Beneficiary and relate to his work in the field. Both the Director and the Petitioner acknowledged that 
some of the submitted articles lack dates and/or authors, which is a regulatory requirement. The 
Director noted that, "The articles in L'Usine (no author and no date of publication), 20 Minutes (no 
author and no date of publication), and Daily Mail (no publication date) do not meet the plain language 
7 We acknowledge that one of the letters of recommendation states that sells smart cameras to retailers. However, 
the Petitioner provided little other evidence to support this assertion. 
5 
of this criterion." Some of the articles do not meet the evidentiary criterion for additional reasons. 
The Director explained: 
[T[he article is attributed 
to CNN money with a publication date of 2016. However, there is no indication 
on the material that it was published in CNNmoney. It indicates that the article was 
printed from www.news.mit.edu. Also, there is no circulation data for this 
[(www.news.mit.edu)] news site, and no author or publication date is indicated on the 
material. 
The article in journaldunet.com is both about the Beneficiary and related to his work, as well as has a 
listed author and date. The Petitioner provided readership and circulation data for journaldunet.com, 
which ranks the news source at 512 in France and 14,700 worldwide. The data also includes 
journaldunet.com website traffic statistics. However, the Petitioner has not explained how the data 
shows journeldunet.com is a major medium, nor has it explained the source of the data. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided readership and circulation data for many of the media outlets referenced; however, 
it is not apparent where this data came from, as there is no website listed or other indication of the 
data's source. In some cases, the data appears to be from the news source itself. However, USCIS 
need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 
SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major 
medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). For many other news sources referenced, mostly websites, the Petitioner did 
not provide any information to support a finding that the sources are major media. 
Although the Petitioner provided some articles that mention the Beneficiary or his company, they do 
not appear to be about the Beneficiary and relating to his work in the field. For instance, the Business 
Insider France and the L 'Usine articles appear to be about tech startups, mentioning along 
with other companies. The Economist article ________________ 
contains two short paragraphs about retailers, merely mentions the company the Beneficiary co­
founded, and does not list an author. 
Many articles are about the commercial usage of the robots in various service industry 
contexts. For instance, the Director noted, the 2014 Reuters article! I 
is about the purchase of robots by Nescafe to sell 
coffee makers at electronic stores in Japan, and not about the Beneficiary and/or his work." The 
Petitioner acknowledges that it provided a sampling of articles related to the international and wide­
ranging use of the products the Beneficiary contributed to developing. These articles are not 
necessarily about the Beneficiary and relating to his work in the field. Articles that are not about the 
beneficiary do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not 
about the actor). 
Les Echos may be considered a major medium and the article it published has all the required 
regulatory elements. In addition, the content is also about the Beneficiary's company. However, the 
four-paragraph article interviews the Beneficiary's co-founder, not the Beneficiary. While the article 
6 
mentions the Beneficiary, the evidence overall is indicative neither of sustained acclaim nor of the 
Beneficiary's status as one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner emphasized that it submitted nearly fifty articles. While the Petitioner offered a 
significant volume of evidence, eligibility for the benefit sought is not determined by the quantity of 
evidence alone but also the quality. Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376 (citing Matter of E-M-, 20 l&N 
Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989)). The Petitioner bears the responsibility of ensuring that the record 
demonstrates how the Beneficiary qualifies for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the Director ignored evidence. However, 
when USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will 
not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to 
address every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. See Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 
123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. 
U.S. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. U.S. INS, 984 F.2d 105, 107 (4th 
Cir. 1993). 
As noted regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence of numerous conferences and 
symposiums in which the Beneficiary participated. IEEE hosted most of these conferences and 
symposiums based on content published in its digital library. The Beneficiary is a named author on 
the publications, most of which were published in 2008 and 2009, during which time the Beneficiary 
pursued his doctoral degree. The evidence does not suggest that the Beneficiary continues to publish 
or offer original research. Further, the Petitioner provided little information on what IEEE is and does, 
how it determines what it publishes, or the intended audience of the publications. 
In its request for evidence (RFE) response, the Petitioner quoted the USCIS Policy Manual for the 
assertion that "peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working 
in the field ... may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor."8 Although the portion of the Policy Manual in which this appears relates to the criterion of 
original contributions of major significance, the Director nevertheless considered the Petitioner's 
assertion under the authorship of scholarly articles criterion.9 
The Petitioner offered evidence of the Beneficiary's 128 citations in Google Scholar. However, the 
record does not contain sufficient comparative evidence to establish the relative significance of this 
number of citations. In other words, it is not apparent that the Beneficiary's work has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field based upon 128 citations. 
Although articles mentioning I !received considerably more citations, the Petitioner has 
not offered sufficient evidence to explain whether the Beneficiary authored thel articles 
and whether they would be considered scholarly. Therefore, we cannot confer thel I 
citation history upon the Beneficiary in the context of the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly 
articles. Regarding the Beneficiary's citation history as it pertains to the significance of his 
contributions to the field, the Director noted that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient "evidence to 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner pivots from away from its RFE position and criticizes the Director's decision for considering 
whether the articles provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field. 
7 
demonstrate that this number of citations is indicative of major significance in the Beneficiary's field." 
We similarly conclude that the Petitioner has offered insufficient comparative evidence to establish 
widespread commentary or notice from others in the field. 
Regarding contributions to the field, the Petitioner provided evidence of the Beneficiary's patents and 
that other researchers have built upon the systems he created. As the Director noted, the patents and 
other evidence support a finding of originality, but do not necessarily support a finding that his 
contributions were of major significance in the field. The Director explained that "[i]nnovative 
contributions that lead to commercial success for the employer are commendable, but are insufficient 
if they do not demonstrate that the contributions made a major impact in the field of endeavor as a 
whole." Although the Beneficiary's former employer may have sold hundreds or thousands of I I robots to various service industries internationally, such evidence demonstrates 
commercial success for the employer and a contribution to the service industry more than the 
Beneficiary's field. Even if the Petitioner had provided sufficiently detailed information regarding 
I Isales, it would not necessarily support a finding that the patented systems within the 
robots are available to the field as a whole. Even if we assume the patents' publication makes the 
underlying perception system within thel I available to the scientific community, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that the acclaim! !received can be conferred upon the 
Beneficiary such that his specific contributions are of major significance. 
The Petitioner provided various abstracts of other researchers who use thel I robots to 
conduct research. In addition, articles and letters of recommendation support the finding that others 
in the scientific community have built u on the technology. The record reflects that 
researchers may have purchased a ___ robot to use as the platform upon which they test 
their own systems. Although the record reflects that the Beneficiary contributed to the creation of the I robots, the evidence provided does not sufficiently connect the Beneficiary's specific 
contribution of the perception systems to the success of the robots. For instance, the majority if not 
all of media articles discussing I do not mention the Beneficiary or his perception 
system contribution specifically. While these articles are significant and probative, they do not 
sufficiently support a finding that the Beneficiary has risen to the very top of his field. Furthermore, 
the record does not sufficiently reflect that the Beneficiary has sustained acclaim as a result of the I !robots, as opposed to achieving a level of temporary acclaim. 
Similarly, although the robots may be the standard platform for an international robotics competition, 
the evidence suggests that the hosts selected I I because they offer tracking features 
useful in monitoring the contestants. It is not apparent that the Beneficiary's contribution to the 
technology within the robots has been of major significance in the field as a result of the competition 
selecting ltor its monitoring and tracking capabilities. 
Although the Petitioner provided basic evidence to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility under the 
criterion related to performing a leading or critical role within distinguished organizations or 
establishments, the Petitioner did not provide strong evidence of the distinguished reputation of 
The Petitioner provided evidence of I I size and reputation in 
the field, which the Director found sufficient to establish I I distinguished reputation. 
However, the record does not clearly reflect whether the Beneficiary worked for I I 
Rather, it appears that he worked tori I before _____ acquired it. 
8 
Therefore, evidence of I reputation cannot necessarily be conferred upon I I I I In addition, the Beneficiary's leading or critical role at one company during a limited period 
of employment does not sufficiently support a finding that he has sustained acclaim.10 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary participated in a temporary working group which 
the French government initiated. Documentation about the group states that "[f]or two months, 
researchers, companies, start-ups and institutional players will come together to help define France's 
broad guidelines for artificial intelligence." The document reflects that the organizers of the group placed 
the Beneficiary as a member of a 23-person subgroup entitled the "national development of the ecosystem 
of French AT technologies suppliers and their use." The evidence does not indicate that the Beneficiary 
leads his subgroup, how the organizers selected the Beneficiary for participation, or how the Beneficiary 
contributed to the group. The document does not clearly reflect the total number of participants in the 
working group; however, the list is ten pages long, single spaced, and contains 17 subgroups.11 Although 
the French government's selection of the Beneficiary for participation in the working group demonstrates 
his expertise in Al, it does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In summary, the Beneficiary seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard.12 The Petitioner's 
evidence confirms the Beneficiary received attention from those in his field. However, considering the 
full measure of the Beneficiary's ability and achievements, the level of his national or international 
acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field, we conclude that the 
evidence is not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. The Petitioner has not sufficiently documented 
how the Beneficiary has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa 
petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 While we acknowledge the Petitioner's statement that the Beneficiary currently holds a leadership role, it is unclear 
when his leading or critical role began. The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing for the requested 
benefit. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
11 Some names appear more than once. Accordingly, a simple count of the names on the list does not necessarily reflect 
the number participants overall. In addition, although the Petitioner provided 10 pages of names, the page numbers do not 
appear to match. For instance. after the page "6 of 6," the pages continue as "7 of 6," "8 of 6," "9 of 6," and "10 of 6." 
We cannot determine what this means or whether the evidence represents the complete list of participants. 
12 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24361397 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an industrial designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had won a major, internationally-recognized award in his 
field. 1 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may revoke the approval of a petition "at any 
time" for "good and sufficient cause." Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. USCIS may issue a 
notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) a petition's approval for good and sufficient cause if the unexplained 
and unrebutted record at the time of the notice's issuance would have warranted the petition's denial. 
Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 451 (BIA 1987). The NOIR provides the opportunity to submit 
evidence in support of the petition and in opposition to the alleged grounds for revocation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2(b ). If the NOIR response does not rebut or resolve revocation grounds stated in the notice, 
USCIS properly revokes a petition's approval. Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451-52. 2 However, 
a revocation is not valid unless it is based on evidence contained in the record of proceedings. Id. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner has provided a brief which may be relevant to his eligibility as of the time of filing, stating that 
his initial evidence demonstrates that he qualifies both with a one-time achievement and with documentation meeting three 
of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director is the more appropriate party to consider the impact of the 
appeal brief on the Petitioner 's eligibility , as we cannot adjudicate the appeal based on an incomplete record. 
2 The Director's decision states that they did not receive a response to their NOIR. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a 
shipping receipt indicating that they mailed the response to the wrong address. The full, original NOIR response is not 
present in the record. 
At this time, we are unable to address the merits of this case because the record is incomplete. The 
record indicates that the Petitioner originally submitted a 13-page brief and several supporting 
documents in support of his petition. However, the record lacks complete copies of these documents. 
Thus, we cannot determine whether the Director properly considered all the relevant evidence in the 
record or whether the record at the time of the revocation would have warranted the petition's denial. 
Id. at 452. The Director bears the responsibility of ensuring that the record is complete and contains 
all evidence that has been submitted by a petitioner or considered by USCIS in reaching its decision. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); cf. Matter of Gibson, 16 I&N Dec. 58, 59 (BIA 1976). We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter. 
On remand, the Director should identify and incorporate any documents which may have been 
inadvertently omitted from the record of proceeding before reviewing the entire record and issuing a 
new decision. If the Director cannot supplement the record with the missing materials, they should 
issue a new NOIR, granting the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to respond. Upon receipt of a 
timely response, the Director should review the entire record and enter a new decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25233092 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
did not meet any of the claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . Following an appeal, we 
remanded the case to the Director for entry of a new decision. The Director determined that, while 
the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish 
that he achieved sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the very small percentage of 
actors at the top of the field. The Petitioner appealed the new decision and we dismissed that appeal. 
We also dismissed two subsequent motions to reconsider. The matter is now before us on a third 
motion to reconsider. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner checked box 1.a in Part 2 of Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating that he was filing an 
appeal. However , because his brief refers to his filing as a motion to reconsider our previous motion decision, we will 
consider this as a motion to reconsider . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded in his most recent decision in this matter that while the Petitioner met three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria, he did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim 
through extensive documentation, nor did he establish that he was among the small percentage at the 
top of his field. On appeal, we reached the same conclusion; we also refuted the Petitioner's assertion 
that the Director misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit's decision in Kazarian as requiring a final merits 
determination. In our initial motion decision, we explained again that case law and official U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy supported the Director's and our interpretation 
of Kazarian, and we explained why the record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. In our subsequent motion decision, we explained that the 
Petitioner's reasoning ignores plain language in the Kazarian decision and is not supported by relevant 
caselaw; we further explained that the publicly available USCIS Policy Manual plainly states that if 
an individual shows that they either meet three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or 
have a one-time achievement, they must then establish that they possess the requisite sustained 
national or international acclaim and are one of the small percentage at the top of their field. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner does not challenge our previous conclusions regarding the merits of his 
petition. The Petitioner submits copies of court cases from 1994, 1995, and 2008, as well as non­
precedent appellate decisions3 from 2004 and 2007, for individual petitions that were found to qualify 
2 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 We note that these decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCTS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the 
individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
as noted above, applicable law and policy. 
2 
for the extraordinary ability classification. Those petitions were found eligible for the classification 
because it was determined that certain evidence presented to support the petitions was either 
mischaracterized or ignored. However, those cases were decided under previous adjudicative policy 
guidance that is not applicable to the present case. Further, those cases were decided prior to the 2010 
Kazarian decision. In the present case, we fully reviewed the evidence of record and rendered our 
previous motion decision based on that evidence in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and 
USCIS policy. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that our previous motion decision was based upon an incorrect 
application of law or policy. Therefore, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24826225 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), 
that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), related to judging others' work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets four other criteria, which we will analyze below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards and 
the prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor .1 The Petitioner provided evidence that he received al I award. 
However, he offered little to no evidence about the I coaching award such 
that we can conclude that it is a nationally or internationally recognized.2 To support his eligibility 
under this and other criteria, he provided reference letters from players and colleagues, along with 
information about the01ocation in Rhode Island in which he served as a coach. The evidence does 
not demonstrate how many coaches receive the award and whether only0coaches are eligible for 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 We acknowledge the assertions in the attorney letter accompanying the petition; however, the unsupported assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 {BIA 1988). 
2 
consideration. Without more, the evidence suggests that on ly coaches can receive al I I award. Furthermore, the record does not demonstrate how winners are selected or 
announced. Although may be a national or international soccer club by virtue of its 41 locations 
throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, and Spain, this does not sufficiently establish that 
the coach of the year award is a nationally or internationally recognized award. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the existence of published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material.3 The Petitioner submitted articles from and the I I none of which contain the author of the material as the regulation requires. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence to establish that I lis the oldest and most influential 
newspaper in a particular part of Europe. The Petitioner presented an article entitled,! I 
The title does not reference the Petitioner, but 
rather indicates the article may be about youth soccer in the United States. Although the Petitioner 
provided a certified English language translation, the translation appears to be incomplete.4 
The title of the I !article indicates that it is about soccer in the United States I I and is in an interview style format. Although the Petitioner provided certified translations 
of I I interview with him as their source, the translation appears to be incomplete, as the 
Petitioner provided only the first three of 13 pages. The record contains little to no background or 
readership information about thel I 
The Petitioner provided information thatDis a popular news source for women in Serbia. The 
article contains an interview with the Petitioner regarding youth soccer in the United States and the 
Petitioner's work as a girls' soccer coach. 
The I article references the Zambia girls' soccer teamJ I and is about the 
increasing popularity of soccer among girls. The article references the Petitioner as the source of 
information about youth soccer in the United States. The accompanying website printouts, such as 
Wikipedia, provide background information regarding the history of the land state 
that it is a state-owned newspaper. 
Although the articles contain information from the Petitioner in an interview style format and provide 
some introductory background about the Petitioner, the articles appear to be about youth soccer in the 
United States. Articles that are not about the foreign national do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). While the articles contain information 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 Among other indicators, the length of the original text is significantly longer than the length of the translation. 
3 
about the Petitioner's work in the field of soccer, the contents of the articles suggest interest in the 
Petitioner only insofar as he informs them about youth soccer in the United States. Therefore, the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that the articles are about the Petitioner. Additionally, 
where we do not have a complete translation of the article, the content of the article is not established 
and therefore cannot serve as evidence of published material about the Petitioner. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that these media represent professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Although the Petitioner provided background information about 
the history of certain media outlets, the approximate scope of distribution, and ownership details, he 
did not provide sufficient evidence to explain or show the significance of this information or how it 
indicates a medium's major status or standing.5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field of specialization.6 The evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner is a soccer 
coach and as a part of that employment, he judges the performance of the soccer players he coaches. 
Therefore, the evidence establishes eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.7 
The Petitioner provided numerous reference letters in which the authors praise the Petitioner's 
personal and professional qualities, his abilities as a soccer coach, as well as his knowledge and skill. 
Many of the authors describe the Petitioner's professional accomplishments and the specific results he 
achieved for individual players. However, the authors do not identify any original contributions, nor 
do they provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly 
significant in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.8 On the other hand, letters that 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Here, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner positively influenced and impacted individual players; 
however, the evidence does not support a finding that he affected or contributed in any way to the field 
of athletics or soccer. The letters do not describe any specific methods or techniques the Petitioner 
developed to support a finding that the Petitioner's contributions to his players and teams are original. 
Even if or or any of the other soccer clubs in which the Petitioner 
participated as either a coach or a player, used policies, strategies, or methods the Petitioner developed, 
this would not demonstrate his impact or influence in the overall field of athletics or even soccer 
specifically.10 Because the Petitioner has not established that his achievements as a soccer player or 
coach are original contributions which have been of major significance to the sport of soccer or the 
field of athletics, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Summary 
As the Petitioner has not asserted eligibility under criteria (ii), (vi), (vii), (ix), or (x), and we determined 
that he has not established eligibility under (i), (iii), or (v), we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has 
established eligibility under three criteria. In other words, even if we analyzed criterion (viii), 
regarding the performance of a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation, and found the Petitioner eligible under this criterion, the Petitioner would still 
only establish that he meets two criteria. 
As the Petitioner has not established eligibility under three criteria, and he does not assert eligibility under 
four criteria, analysis of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) would serve no meaningful 
purpose. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) 
(stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
B. Kazarian 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misinterpreted Kazarian. Specifically, the Petitioner 
argues that "USCIS misinterprets the final merits determination in Kazarian as an opportunity to 
question the three criteria that have been satisfied." The Petitioner highlights Buletini v. INS, 850 F. 
Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994), asserting that the Director should have applied Buletini, a pre-Kazarian 
district court decision. In contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United 
States district court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
(BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration 
when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. 
Id. at 719. 
Regardless, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization 
of the adjudication process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates 
that the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria 
and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and substantiated 
reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject 
at any time the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification . Therefore, the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and another pre-Kazarian federal district court 
decision, rather than Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive.11 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reason. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 The Petitioner also cites Gulen v. Chertoff, No. 07-2148, 2008 WL 2779001 (E.D. Pa. July 16, 2008) to conclude that if 
a petitioner meets three criteria, it is contrary to law if USCIS concludes that such a petitioner is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability. However, as we analyzed above, the Petitioner does not meet at least three criteria. In addition, 
even if this case were applicable to the Petitioner, it would still constitute a pre-Kazarian federal district court decision 
that we need not follow. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22668589 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professional water skier, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish she had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to published 
material about the Petitioner in major media and authorship of scholarly articles, but that she had not 
satisfied the remaining categories listed above. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met the 
evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon which the Director issued an adverse 
determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the published material in major media and the scholarly articles criteria, but 
she also satisfies one additional category of evidence. Because we conclude the Petitioner has satisfied 
one additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement, but it is unnecessary that we 
evaluate the remaining claimed criteria as the Petitioner is only required to satisfy three of the 
regulatory requirements. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner contends that she was a member of the Belarus National Water Ski Team's main squad 
froml I The documentation indicated that recognition of sports in the Republic of 
Belarus is carried out by the Ministry of Sports and Tourism (MST). Thus, MST determined the 
country's official sports, and also selected each sport's national team. The documentation from MST 
stated that a national team consists of athletes, coaches, and other specialists selected for preparation 
and participation under the state symbols of the Republic of Belarus in the Olympics, Paralympics, 
Deaflympic Games, European Games, World and European Championships, World and European 
cups, and other international sporting competitions held by international sports organizations. 
As evidence of membership in the national team, the Petitioner submitted a certificate of membership 
from MST confirming she was in the main squad of the national team for each year from I I 
The Petitioner also submitted a document from MST listing the criteria used for selecting the national 
team. According to the MST's rules, athletes are selected based on results shown at official 
international and republican competitions. Further, MST established tables with specific 
competitions, events, age categories and acceptable rankings for each competition to qualify for the 
national team. The document from MST also stated the main squad of the national team should be 
approved based upon the proposal of the head coach and coaching counsel. And if several athletes 
have the same technical results, the decision on including an athlete to the squad should be taken by 
the head coach of the national team. 
While the Belarus National Water Ski Team is not an "association," we could consider the Petitioner's 
selection to such a team as comparable evidence pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
because being named to the roster of a national team is the result of a multi-level national selection 
process, supervised by national experts. Given the level of accomplishment required to secure a place 
on a country's national team (which competes at the international level), it appears reasonable to 
conclude that it is the functional equivalent of an association of the type contemplated in the 
regulations. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval of the petition. However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
3 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24782988 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 22, 2023 
Form 1-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker (Extraordinary Ability-0) 
The Petitioner, a former professor at Brown Mackie College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed thirteen motions filed by the 
Petitioner since 2014. Most recently, we dismissed his combined motion to reopen and reconsider on 
September 1, 2022. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and reconsider our prior 
decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence . INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asserts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the September 1, 2022 
dismissal of the Petitioner's thirteenth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the 
earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior 
stages of the proceeding. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement generally asserting his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability, but does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy error in our prior 
decision. The Petitioner states that President Biden's February 2, 2021 fact sheet ("President Biden 
Outlines Steps to Reform Our Immigration System by Keeping Families Together, Addressing the 
Root Causes of Irregular Migration, and Streamlining the Legal Immigration System,") supports 
reopening these proceedings because it outlines the administration's mission to eliminate barriers to 
immigration and to "not let immigrant visas go to waste." Review of the President's fact sheet shows 
that it announced three steps ( create a task force to reunify families; develop a strategy to address 
irregular migration across the southern border and create a humane asylum system; and restore faith 
in our legal immigration system and promote integration of new Americans) however, none of these 
pertain to the issuance of visas to individuals, like the Petitioner, who are self-petitioning as individuals 
of extraordinary ability. 
Next, the Petitioner asserts that three "Special Masters Lawyers" have reviewed his credentials and 
determined that he meets the criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner does not 
provide any evidence to establish who these "Special Masters Lawyers" are or how they determined 
his credentials were sufficient to establish his eligibility for an extraordinary ability visa. He also 
requests approval of his visa petition because the "loss of available employment-based immigrant 
visas harms employers and foreign nationals." These statements, however, are insufficient to be 
considered new facts. In addition, these assertions do not pertain to any error of law or policy in our 
prior decision. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under the second preference visa classification as a member of 
the professions holding an advanced degree or a noncitizen of exceptional ability seeking a national 
interest waiver and requests that we convert his first preference petition to a second preference national 
interest waiver petition. Again, this request neither establishes a new fact nor establishes that our prior 
decision was based on an error of law or policy. Further, we will not entertain a request for a change 
of classification for a petition that has already been adjudicated. A post-adjudication alteration of the 
requested visa classification constitutes a material change. A petitioner may not make material 
changes to a petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. See Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
The Petitioner also cites to chapters 40.9.2(b )(2) and 40.9.2(b )(3) of the Adjudicator's Field Manual 
to assert that he has maintained lawful status in the United States during the pendency of his petition 
and subsequent appeal and motions. As this does not address any of the issues raised in our prior 
decision, or establish a new fact, we will not reopen or reconsider our prior decision on this basis. 
As before, the Petitioner again lists his credentials under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, this recitation of his credentials does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy error 
2 
in our prior decision. His reference to a social media post by an individual who states he only received 
an elementary school education and request to understand how this individual received an 
extraordinary ability visa, whereas he has seven university degrees, and has been deemed ineligible, 
does not address the basis for our prior decision. As we explained, the fact that he may have seven 
educational degrees is insufficient to establish eligibility unless he establishes how his "academic 
degrees fulfill any specific criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)." His request for an explanation 
of how someone with less education may have received an immigration benefit is beyond the scope of 
a motion to reopen and reconsider, and does not establish proper cause for granting either motion. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner has still not addressed our questions surrounding his claimed 
international "Innovare Award" in 2005, as it appears the international version of the award did not 
exist prior to 2010. The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our prior decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his motion to 
reopen because he has not provided evidence of new facts related to our prior decision. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25516529 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 23, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician and maker of musical instruments, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that he seeks to enter the United States 
to continue working in his area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue wo:rk in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--{x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he has participated in musical performances and competitions since 2012, 
when he was 14 years old, and that he owns a business in Thailand making musical instruments 
including the phin, an instrument similar to a guitar. The Petitioner studied folk music at I _ University in Thailand, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 2020. The Petitioner 
entered the United States in 2021 as a B-1 nonimmigrant visitor for business, in order to volunteer as 
a musician and music teacher for a Buddhist temple inl I. The Petitioner stated that, since 
his arrival in the United States, he has "been giving free music lessons and traveling to perform." The 
Petitioner has also performed at other cultural events in the United States, including a performance at 
the University of I I where he also worked with students. The 
Petitioner states that he "would like to build a guitar shop ... and a music school," while also 
continuing to volunteer with cultural organizations. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially submitted a list of ten claims. These claims did not directly correlate to 
the wording of the regulatory criteria, butthe Director concluded thatthe Petitioner's claims fell within 
seven of the criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner did not appear to have made 
claims under the remaining three criteria. The Petitioner did not dispute this conclusion. 
2 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not met any of the ten regulatory 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding remuneration 
and commercial success, but he maintains that he satisfies the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion, relating to artistic 
display, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or intemationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
When determining whether an individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: 
• The criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; 
• The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and 
• The number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 
See generally 6 USCISPolicy Manua!F.2 appendix,https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner has submitted copies of certificates and letters indicating that he has won prizes at various 
musical competitions in Thailand. Many of these competitions appear to have been local or regional, but 
the Petitioner indicates that at least three of these competitions, in the pong lang form of folk music, were 
at a national level: 
• Second place, Competition, 2018; 
• First place, Competition, 2019; and 
• Thirdplace, Competition,2019. 
The Petitioner submitted photographs of himself holding trophies and certificates, and other photographs 
showing performances, musicians, and award ceremonies. The Petitioner also submitted photocopies of 
several certificates, along with what appear to be English translations. Any document containing foreign 
language must be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified 
as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3 ). The translations submitted initially do not 
include the required certifications. 
In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner of the requirements for certified translations. The 
Petitioner's response included submitted new translations of some documents, stamped "Certified Correct 
Translation." This summary declaration does not meet the regulat01y requirements listed above. 
In his response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that his "highest honor" was when he "won the Thailand I He also asserted that his first prize in the Thailand! !Championship 
"was the highest a ward in Thailand in terms of the !competition." The Petitioner 
did not submit objective information about the awards to establish the extent of their national or 
international recognition. 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the submitted evidence did not establish that the prizes 
are nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits properly certified translations of some prize certificates, most of them 
from regional or rovincial events. The hi hest-level certificate indicates that the Petitioner was the 
runner-up in a Several other 
certificates relate to student competitions. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective documenta1y 
evidence to show that the prizes are nationally or internationally recognized. Evidence of national or 
international recognition can take different forms. For example, the awarding of a particular prize might 
attract media coverage or notice throughout the field. Without evidence of that recognition, assertions 
about an award' s significance will not suffice to meet the requirements in the regulations. 
The head of the Undergraduate Program at I University College of Music stated that the 
contests were "operated by the Department of Physical Education Ministry of Tourism and 
Sports," but the record does not contain evidence from the awarding entity to provide key information 
about the competitions and prizes. The prizes are from a government entity, and they are named after 
Thai royalty, but without further context and documentation, these factors alone do not establish the 
recognition level of the prizes. 
The Petitioner has not established that the prizes he received were nationally or internationally recognized. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner stated that he received coverage from a newspaper in I I In the denial notice, 
the Director stated that the Petitioner had not submitted a copy of the material. The Petitioner had, 
however, submitted printed screen captures of online articles from Thai Newspaper. To this extent, 
we disagree with the Director's conclusion. Nevertheless, the Petitioner did not establish that Thaz 
Newspaper is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. From the material 
submitted, the intended readership appears to be narrowly focused on Thai-language speakers in the D I I area. Also, the submitted printouts do not identify dates or authors as required by the regulations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit complete, certified translations of the articles, as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner only submitted translations of the captions to the photographs 
accompanying the articles. The translated captions identify the Petitioner as a volunteer at religious and 
cultural organizations in California and focus on projects he undertook there, including non-musical tasks 
such as building fences. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that the articles are "not related to [his] expertise," but he asserts 
that the articles have nevertheless "contributed to the benefit of the public" by drawing attention to the 
temple where he has worked as a volunteer. Whatever secondary effect the articles may have had, the 
Petitioner has not shown that they relate to his work in the field and otherwise meet the regulatory 
requirements. The "extraordinary ability" classification requires a high level ofrecognition, not shown 
in the submitted published materials. 
4 
The Petitioner also submitted screen capture images from several Y ouTube and Facebook videos. The 
Petitioner did not submit transcripts and any necessary English translations, and therefore the evidence 
submitted does not show that the videos are published material about the Petitioner, relating to his work 
in the field for which he seeks classification. Also, he did not submit evidence such as view counts to 
establish that the Y ouTube channels and Face book pages that carried the videos qualify as professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 
The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just 
about the person's employer or another organization that the person is associated with. Evidence of 
published material should establish that the online or print circulation or viewership is high compared to 
other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, andauthorof themate1ial. 
See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
We note that the screen capture printout from one Facebook video is stamped "Certified Complete 
Translation," with no indication of what has been translated. The screen image shows no text except for 
a logo, and the English-language passage below the image is a description of the interview rather than a 
transcript. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has been the subject of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien 's parlicipation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an alliedjield of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner initially stated that he satisfies this criterion because his handmade instruments "are being 
used in regional, national and international.__ _________ music concerts," and because 
he is "recognized as a top 5" musician. The Petitioner did not explain how this information shows that 
he has participated as a judge of the work of others. The Petitioner also stated: "I have evaluate[d] my 
work as national level quality according [to] national competition standards." However, the regulation 
refers to judging the work of others, rather than evaluating one's own work. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not identified any qualifyingjudging activity. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this issue. As a result, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had not submitted evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states "I agree with this verdict, but I appeal that I have been invited to serve as 
a folk music specialist, performer and educator fotj I students ... and able to control a band." The 
Petitioner cites a letter from an adjunct assistant professor at who stated that the Petitioner "can 
direct a traditional ensemble of instruments." The letter does not indicate that the Petitioner acted as a 
judge, for the purpose of evaluation, rather than as a conductor whose function was to lead the performers. 
We agree with the Director thatthe Petitioner has not submitted evidence of his participation as a judge 
of the work of others. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "was a team manager in thel !Organization," where his 
"roles include[ d] performing, designing and building [the] stage for the artists of thel I I Concert," as well as fund raising. The Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish the 
distinguished reputation of the organization. 
In the RFE, the Director requested further evidence to establish both the leading or critical nature of the 
Petitioner's roles with various organizations, and the distinguished reputations of those organizations. 
The Petitioner's response included letters and photographs relating to his various past activities, but the 
Petitioner did not explain how these materials meet the regulatory requirements. The Director therefore 
concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "worked with large organizations, including The size 
alone of the organization, however, does not demonstrate the Petitioner worked in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. Using the Petitioner's work at as an 
example, the record indicates that he taught students as a guest instructor and performed with music 
students. The Petitioner does not explain how these activities amounted to a leading or critical role for I I and he does not establish that an individual class or musical ensemble at is, itself, an 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 appendix, which indicates that, when an individual's role is not leading or critical for an 
entire organization, we must consider whether "the department or division for which the person holds or 
held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation." 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to show that he has performed in leading or critical roles 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the required 
criteria. This conclusion determines the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve consideration 
of the separate question of whether the Petitioner has submitted clear evidence that he is coming to 
the United States to continue work in the area of expertise as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1iheless, we have 
6 
reviewed all the evidence in the record, and it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not submitted extensive documentation, showing recognition of his work at the level of sustained 
national or international acclaim. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record contains information about the Petitioner's education in Thailand and his volunteer work and 
involvement with cultural efforts in the United States. But the record does not show that the Petitioner is 
recognized for his work at a national or international level. The Petitioner's evidence does not meet the 
very high standards described in section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the regulations at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner has won prizes in national-level competitions, but the record does not provide enough 
infmmation about those competitions and prizes. We take note of "limitations on competitors"; see 
genera lly 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix, because those limitations may exclude the 
most acclaimed figures in a given field. Fully-trained and accomplished musicians with long-established 
careers are, by definition, excluded from competitions limited to students and young adults. Also, from 
the limited information provided, it appears that the prizes were awarded to entire bands or orchestras. 
Such recognition does not necessarily translate into acclaim for individual members of the performing 
group. The statute requires "extensive documentation," and the regulations call for a diverse variety of 
evidence. 
Events other than competitions can contribute to national or international acclaim, but the information 
presented to us lacks context. For example, the Petitioner indicates that he appeared on television in 
Thailand, portraying a musician, but he did not establish the nature or extent of this appearance. The 
record does not show whether he was he a principal character, or performing in the background because 
a particular scene was set at an event with live music, such as a party. Also, he did not show that the 
programs' producers selected him because he was a recognized musician, or that his television 
appearances resulted in demonstrable acclaim orrecognition afterwards. 
The Petitioner asserts "there are few people" who have reached his level of expertise. The record lacks 
sufficient evidence to support this conclusion; it provides no basis for comparison between the Petitioner 
and others in the same field. Furthermore, the statute requires sustained national or international acclaim, 
rather than attaining a particular level of skill, ability, or talent. The Petitioner has submitted letters from 
individuals close to him, praising his skills and achievements, but he has not shown that these opinions 
represent a wider consensus in the field, amounting to sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051844 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a music composer and director who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work in the United States in his area 
of expertise. The Director further determined he did not demonstrate his entry into the country will 
substantially benefit the United States in a prospective manner. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 53 7, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
Although the Director's denial reflected the Petitioner is at the very top of his field of endeavor, they 
did not support that conclusion with any analysis. Lacking is any indication or explanation of which 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) the Petitioner has satisfied, as is their analysis of 
his sustained national or international acclaim demonstrating he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field within a final merits determination. After reviewing the record, we conclude that 
it does not adequately support the Director's decision. Because of this shortcoming, we are remanding 
the matter for them to explain which regulatory criteria the Petitioner's evidence has met, and why he 
warrants a favorable outcome within a final merits determination. 
Additionally, it appears the Director considered the Petitioner's field too narrowly when they stated 
"[t]he record shows that as a singer/composer /musical director [he is] at the very top of the field of 
Georgian folklore and liturgical music." The Director may elect to reevaluate this issue and decide 
how precisely they wish to tailor his bailiwick before evaluating his eligibility under this 
classification's other requirements. In fact, within the initial filing the Petitioner characterized himself 
as seeking classification under this preference category "specifically in music direction and 
composition." 
While the Petitioner has received accolades as a Georgian liturgical music director and composer, 
without considering the Petitioner's field more broadly, the Director has limited consideration of his 
achievements and stature to a small subset of those in his field. Even though his specialty in folklore 
music may differentiate him from other music directors and composers, we generally will not narrow 
his field to others with his specific type of training and experience. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483342 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a fashion model seeking classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she can 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's 
occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as a model for more than a decade and she attained 0-1 nonimmigrant 
status as a fashion model. Over her career, she has appeared in and on the covers of fashion and other 
types magazines. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met six of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the judging requirement but that she had not satisfied 
the criteria associated with published material, original contributions, or leading or critical role. The 
Director further concluded she did not show she met the display of her work and commercial success 
criteria through comparable evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the same criteria she claimed before the Director. 
Because she has satisfied one criterion's requirements, she must meet at least two more within the 
antecedent procedural step of this adjudication. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude she has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided several articles as evidence dating back to the mid-2000s. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The Director noted 
several issues with the Petitioner's claims and evidence. First, she provided recent published material 
that was not about her and relating to her work and was also not a form of major media. Second, she 
did not demonstrate some material qualified as major media. 
Third, she presented older articles, but the circulation statistics were from around the time of the 
petition filing date. The issue with this final material was the publication's circulation data did not 
2 
represent the publication's standing close to the time the material was published. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that the Director ignored much of the evidence and applied a standard to the case 
in excess of the preponderance of the evidence. 
The Petitioner claims the Director ignored some evidence because they did not specifically discuss it 
in the denial decision. Although we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not directly discuss 
every piece of evidence that she considers salient, she has not explained how any omitted elements 
demonstrated eligibility. In other words, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Director's failure 
to discuss every document in detail changed the outcome of the case and that is a petitioner's burden, 
which she fell short of meeting here. 
When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it 
will not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it 
to address every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. Amin, 24 F.4th at 394; Martinez v. INS, 
970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir. 1992); ajf'd Morales v. INS, 208 F.3d 323, 328 (1st Cir. 2000); see also 
Pakasi v. Holder, 577 F.3d 44, 48 (1st Cir. 2009); Kazemzadeh v. US. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 
(11th Cir. 2009). 
Turning to the evidence under this criterion the Petitioner discusses on appeal, we begin noting that 
she took issue with the Director requiring circulation and website traffic data relative to the time when 
a publication occurred. Stated differently, the Director did not accept circulation data from 2021 when 
an article was published up to 15 years ago. On appeal, the Petitioner not only states that such dated 
evidence was not available, but she also describes such a requirement as arbitrary and capricious and 
an abuse of discretion that imposes an improper standard of proof. 
We agree that supporting evidence for a publication or a website should reflect its readership 
proximate to the publication of the article to demonstrate the stature of the medium at the time of 
publication. When a petitioner relies on 15-year-old articles, they bear the burden to demonstrate that 
evidence adheres to the regulation's standards when the material was published. The failure to do so 
affects the quality of the evidence. The greater the difference between the circulation data and an 
article's published date, the greater the effect on the evidence's relevance and probative value. See 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376 (discussing the necessity that evidence be relevant, probative, and 
credible). 1 
The Petitioner has not established that each publication qualified as a form of major media when each 
of the relevant articles were published. Nor has she adequately explained how a publication's stature 
attained well after her articles' publication should qualify her under this criterion. We do not follow 
the Petitioner's line ofreasoning any more than we would consider a person grasping a bit of the earth 
in their hands to be clenching a diamond, or someone holding an oyster to possess a fully developed 
pearl. But "[t]here is no pearl within this particular oyster." Healey v. Bendick, 628 F. Supp. 681, 693 
(D.R.I. 1986) ( declining to characterize a government action as arbitrary and capricious or bereft of a 
standard of proof). In a similar situation but a different context, we rely on Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
1 The articles that experience diminished evidentiary value the Petitioner discusses on appeal due to this shortcoming 
include: 2007 articles from L 'Officiel, Fakty Magazine, Elle Ukraine; a 2008 article from The Fashion Spot; a 2009 article 
from Elle Ukraine; and a 2016 article from Segodyna Magazine. 
3 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998) to conclude that filing parties cannot demonstrate eligibility at some 
future date after they become eligible under a new set of facts. 2 
The Petitioner also discusses the distinguished nature of publications in a way that implies this term 
is part of this criterion's requirements when it is not. But we will adhere to the regulation's 
requirements and to agency policy to evaluate whether each publication is a professional or a major 
trade publication, or a form of major media. Those requirements are that the published material must 
be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to the Petitioner's work in the field. Further, the 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Professional or major trade publications are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. 
To qualify as major media, the Petitioner must establish the circulation statistics are high relative to 
other similar forms of media. The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published 
item's title, date, and author and if the published item is in a foreign language, they must provide a 
translation that complies with the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The article from diply.com is not about the Petitioner. Instead, it mentions the Petitioner within two 
sentences and discusses her among 19 other models. An article that is not about the Petitioner does 
not meet this regulatory criterion. See Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 
3213788, at *8 (C.D. Cal. Apr. 9, 2020) (quoting Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 
(S.D.N.Y. 2012) (finding that articles that are about a team or a competition and only briefly mention 
a foreign national do not satisfy the published material criterion); see also generally, Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles about a show or a character within a show are not about the performer). 
And even though the Petitioner claims that all the submitted articles contained the title, date, and 
author, even the appeal brief reflects the publication date is unknown for the work titled I I I I from Vogue Girl Korea. This material does not meet the regulation's requirements. 
Finally, the 2021 article from Fakty Ukraine was translated into English, but it was not accompanied 
by a translator's certification as required by the regulation. Also, the information relating to this 
publication's circulation statistics originated from Wikipedia and there are no assurances about the 
reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site. See United States v. Lawson, 677 
F.3d 629, 650-51 (4th Cir. 2012); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008); see also 
Sibanda v. Holder, 778 F.3d 676, 680 (7th Cir. 2015). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not identify the circulation figures for other publications in Ukraine by 
which it can be determined through comparison that Fakty Ukraine is a major medium. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting that 
"[e]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics .... "). In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets 
the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
2 While this precedent does not directly apply here, the concept is sufficiently similar. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 ( citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner provided media relating to her career, and several letters from those who work in the 
fashion industry. The Director acknowledged articles praising her achievements and the fact that she 
is known for her unique eyes, then decided that her claims and evidence did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner notes the Director did not offer analysis relating to much 
of her evidence and continues to focus her claims on the uniqueness of her facial features having an 
impact within the modeling industry. 
While the Petitioner provided numerous testimonial letters from well-known members in the fashion 
world, not all of them addressed how she has made original contributions to the industry. Although a 
select few did discuss her contributions, they lack specific information to demonstrate her 
contributions rose to a level of major significance. Several letters characterize the Petitioner as a 
pioneer for models with a unique appearance and imply that she changed the standards for models 
through her unusual look, while others state that she has reinforced the industry's embrace of bold and 
differing looks. For instanceJ !attributes the Petitioner's appearance in the industry as 
the turning point when designers, creative directors, and fashion industry executives began to gravitate 
toward her look, which paved the way for other models with a similar appearance. 
Although some supporting materials in the record reference her unique eyes and reinforce that she is 
known for this feature in the industry, what is lacking is probative evidence demonstrating her field 
was actually impacted by her appearance. She did not establish that prior to her arrival, models with 
large eyes or other bold facial features were not present or were not employed in the fashion industry. 
Nor did she illustrate that because of her emergence and her unique look, that this served as a turning 
point in which those with similar features were sought out in a widespread manner. Essentially, the 
Petitioner did not show that her claimed contribution resulted in a significant impact in her field. 
Within other letters, the Petitioner asserts the authors detailed the impact she has had on the modeling 
industry, but a review of those materials does not bear out those claims. For example, the letter from I !details the role the Petitioner played within her organization and although she discusses 
how her unique appearance resulted in monetary gain forl !agency, she does not explain 
how that impacted the field as a whole in a significant manner. 
5 
Although the Petitioner has shown that she is known for her unique appearance within the industry, 
she has not explained or demonstrated that this factor has significantly impacted the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she satisfied this criterion in one of two methods. She first 
claimed the regulatory standards readily apply to her occupation, and if that method did not result in 
a favorable determination, her evidence qualified as comparable evidence under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner provided multiple administrative decisions in support of her 
claim that the standards under this criterion readily applied to her occupation. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion finding that when she modelled the 
clothing of designers, that did not constitute the display of her work. 
While two things can both be true at one time, the Petitioner's contradictory positions cannot. Because 
the Petitioner presents a dichotomy and both statements cannot be true (i.e., the standards both readily 
apply to her occupation and that they do not), and because she presented affirmative materials 
supporting the position that this regulation is applicable to her vocation, we do not accept her 
alternative claims that this criterion's requirements are not readily applicable to her profession. 
Various forms of artistic display may satisfy this criterion's requirements and we evaluate the nature 
of the display. The regulation's plain language requires the exhibition or showcase to be artistic in 
nature. The arts may include visual art, the performing arts, music, graphic art, and other examples of 
the fine arts. And just as the event must be artistic, the evidence must also demonstrate the artistic 
nature of a petitioner's work displayed at the event. 
Here, the regulatory standards are readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner's 
evidence consists of photographs of her appearing in fashion and other types of magazines within tear 
sheets, as well as on the cover of foreign editions of fashion and other categories of magazines. Within 
the appeal, the Petitioner offers a 2016 unpublished administrative decision from this office indicating 
the foreign national in that case met this criterion's requirements through appearing "prominently in a 
number of advertising campaigns and fashion magazine editorials. Some of the campaigns and 
editorials credited the Petitioner, specifically listing his name, as their featured model." However, 
while 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that this office's precedent decisions are binding on all USCIS 
employees in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. We may 
consider the reasoning within the unpublished decision; however, the analysis does not have to be 
followed as a matter of law. 
The Petitioner claims the present case is corollary to the unpublished decision, but we do not agree 
that the facts in her case are sufficiently similar. She does not argue, nor does she identify the evidence 
demonstrating she prominently appeared in a number of advertising campaigns and editorials, some 
of which listed her as the campaign's featured model. Even if that were the case, we are not bound by 
the findings in a previous decision. There is a myriad of factors that might have led to the positive 
decision in that 2016 decision, and we cannot know all of them. Nor do we know that all the factors 
6 
in the present case sufficiently correlate. The Petitioner must demonstrate her eligibility through her 
own evidence and arguments. 
Turning to the Petitioner's claims and supporting material, she discusses various methods in which 
models in general might satisfy this criterion's requirements. Her claims under this criterion consist 
of photographs of her appearing in magazines and on their cover and her appearance on fashion show 
runway events. The record does not establish that her appearance in magazines represents a display 
of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Although the images the Petitioner offers of those 
campaigns show that her work was displayed in print and in digital media, this criterion specifically 
requires display of the Petitioner's work at "artistic exhibitions or showcases." Also see generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices) (focusing on the artistic nature of the venue). The 
Petitioner's arguments lack adequate analysis to demonstrate that these forms of media constitute the 
type of venue the regulation requires that is an artistic exhibition or an artistic showcase. 
As it relates to appearing on fashion show runways, the evidence shows she appeared on the runways, 
but the record does not establish that it was her work that was primarily on display as opposed to the 
fashion items she was wearing. For instance, the record does not reflect that the focus was on the 
models themselves at the claimed fashion shows. 
In other contexts, fashion stylists or "image architects" might make such a showing at a competition 
in which clothing, jewelry, hairstyles, makeup, and fingernails created by the stylist are displayed at a 
runway show attended by judges and spectators. In that instance, the work of stylists was on display 
at an artistic exhibition or showcase. While the Petitioner's claims and evidence might factor more 
appropriately within a final merits determination, it falls short of satisfying the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
When this criterion is readily applicable to an occupation, it requires a petitioner to establish eligibility 
through evidence showing a volume of sales or box office receipts as a measure of a foreign national' s 
commercial success in the performing arts. However, if a petitioner demonstrates these requirements 
are not readily applicable to their occupation, they may submit evidence they consider to be 
comparable that shows commercial success through some monetarily measurable factors or through a 
form of monetization (i.e., through commerce). 
In the end it is not a petitioner who decides what materials may qualify as comparable evidence; 
instead "USCIS determines if the evidence submitted is comparable to the evidence required in 8 CFR 
204.5(h)(3)." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices); see also Matter of 
Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm 'r 1988) ( concluding USCIS "is responsible for 
making the final determination regarding a beneficiary's eligibility for the benefit sought"). 
The Petitioner claimed she met this criterion through comparable evidence before the Director. The 
Director declined to grant this criterion and determined that the regulation did not permit such a 
showing because it "does not allow any alternative measure of one's commercial success other than 
7 
'by box office receipts or records, cassette, compact disc, or video sales."' We do not agree with the 
Director's reasoning here. 
The Petitioner argues and has shown that this criterion's standards are not readily applicable to her 
occupation. To meet her burden of proof under this requirement, the Petitioner must provide evidence 
and an explanation of why that material is comparable to this criterion's original standards. On appeal 
the Petitioner argues a model's commercial success is demonstrated by their ranking with major 
industry journals and organizations, their ability to consistently land important jobs for leading 
commercial clients, and their appearance on the cover of multiple publications. The Petitioner further 
posits that success in the industry via these means demonstrates her success commercially. 
However, absent from the arguments and the evidence is the commercial or monetary aspect relating 
to compensation for these events. While the regulation contains a criterion relating to a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), comparable evidence under this criterion 
could be oflesser qualitative means such that it might not satisfy the salary or remuneration regulation, 
but it could demonstrate a sufficient level of commercial success to comparably show eligibility under 
this requirement. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that demonstrates her claimed achievements are comparable 
to the standards under this criterion. Absent from the arguments and the evidence is the monetary or 
other comparable commercially successful aspect relating to her compensation for the methods she 
claims demonstrate a model's commercial success (i.e., ranking in major industry journals and 
organizations, ability to land important jobs for leading commercial clients, and appearance on the 
cover of multiple publications). Possible examples might include: (1) a product's revenues have 
dramatically increased from the time a model has been featured in advertising that product; (2) their 
presence at fashion shows that don't normally sell out resulted in uncommon demand for the events 
where they are marketed as a featured model; or (3) a magazine's sales significantly increased for the 
particular issue, or issues, as a direct result of a particular model appearing on its cover. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims she meets five criteria in addition to judging, because 
her arguments fail on the criteria we discussed above, that means she cannot numerically meet the 
required number of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on her other claimed 
elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those claims under the leading or critical role 
criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional 
grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 
28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
8 
Petitioner has built a reputation, the record does not support a finding that she has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25678862 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician who composes and performs music. He seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who blends traditional folk music with other genres such as R&B, pop, 
and jazz. He also invented a new form of a bass guitar reportedly expanding the abilities of the 
musician to be more versatile. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the published material criterion, but he did not satisfy 
the criteria associated with original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, or performing in a 
leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the same criteria the Director 
denied. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude he has not demonstrated eligibility 
under this immigrant classification. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner's claims under this criterion boil down to his invention of a "fretted/fretless hybrid bass 
guitar." His supporting evidence consisted of testimonial letters, articles, and his personal statement. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion specifically 
noting a lack of evidence to demonstrate the originality of the Petitioner's instrument. After discussing 
testimonial letters, the Director determined that the authors failed to demonstrate how his work 
influenced the field as a whole that went beyond a group, an individual, or an organization. The 
Director continued discussing the bass guitar and indicated the Petitioner did not provide evidence that 
the guitar has resulted in significant commercial sales or had an impact on musicians or individuals in 
the field and how they perform. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in his field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) ( finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
2 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that his work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the testimonial letters, articles, and his personal statements should 
amply demonstrate that his work has made groundbreaking and original contributions of major 
significance in the field of music. The only testimonial letter the Petitioner discusses under this 
criterion is from I lthat he provided when responded to the Director's request for evidence. I ls peaks of the Petitioner as a unique and original talent noting the methods in which he uses 
the bass "are completely new and are opening new doors in the music industry. These techniques have 
never been used before and are revolutionizing World Music as a genre. Both his playing and singing 
will surely continue to influence and inspire generations to come." 
Despite I I contention that the Petitioner's methods are opening new doors and his 
techniques are revolutionizing a particular genre, he does not offer specific examples of these effects 
in the field. Even though! !claims the Petitioner's performance will continue to have an 
influence in the field, neither he nor the Petitioner adequately explain the present impact in the field 
nor do they corroborate that claim either through testimony or supporting evidence. This criterion 
requires more than for one to possess unique skills and knowledge and to have others attest to those 
aptitudes. The Petitioner must have demonstrably impacted his field in order to meet this regulatory 
criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134). 
The Petitioner's appeal brief also describes an article from Bass Magazine. This evidence is dated in 
August 2022, after the Petitioner filed the petition in February 2021. A request for an immigration 
benefit "must establish that he or she is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit 
request .... " 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Any additional evidence submitted in connection with a benefit 
request at a later date, including evidence responding to a request from USCIS, must also establish 
"eligibility at the time the benefit request was filed." 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(12); Robinson v. Napolitano, 
554 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir. 2009). "Under this rule, USCIS will deny [an immigration benefit] if the 
[filing party] becomes eligible only after the [benefit] was filed." Tingzi Wang v. United States 
Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 375 F. Supp. 3d 22, 27 (D.D.C. 2019) (citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l2)). 
Because this article postdates the petition filing date, we will not consider it in this petition. 
Finally, within the Petitioner's personal statement, he describes his bass guitar's original nature as it 
relates to its design and he explains that two years before he filed this petition, he was invited to 
showcase his invention at a popular trade show where he received significant interest in the instrument. 
But he does not detail how he parlayed any of that interest for this new instrument, nor does he explain 
how this invention has already impacted the field through any measurable means. This criterion 
requires more than simply introducing a newly designed instrument to the field. It also must have 
already made a significant impact within his field and that is where the Petitioner falls short in this 
filing. 
3 
We conclude the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first element is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in 
his field in which he intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent 
resident. We consider these articles to fall within two distinct areas. 
One area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, 
endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the 
concepts expressed in the article. The next area lies outside of the academic arena in which a 
scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The second evidentiary element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of 
the following: (1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major 
media. Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the 
plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided one article under this requirement. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion. First, the Director noted the evidence did not include 
the Petitioner's name as the author and instead identified the publication. The Director also determined 
that although the material appeared in a popular magazine, it was not seemingly intended for learned 
persons in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's first point asserting that even though the evidence 
does not name him as the author, it is obvious that he penned the piece. As a result, the Petitioner has 
not shown that he is the article's author, nor did he provide corroborating evidence from the publisher 
that might aid in his eligibility claims. Nor has he offered a legal authority indicating this regulatory 
requirement may be set aside. The regulations have the force and effect of law and are binding on all 
USCIS employees, and we cannot simply ignore those requirements. Matter of L-, 20 I&N Dec. 553, 
556 (BIA 1992) (citing Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U.S. 135, 153 (1945). 
An agency must adhere to its own rules and regulations, and ad hoc departures from those rules, even to 
achieve laudable aims, cannot be sanctioned. Blanton v. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 909 
F.3d 1162, 1176 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (quoting Reuters Ltd. v. FCC, 781 F.2d 946, 950-51 (D.C. Cir. 
4 
1986). Because the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that he is this article's author, he cannot 
prevail here based on this evidence and it is unnecessary for us to evaluate whether it appeared in one of 
the required publication types. See Matter of M-M-A-, 28 I&N Dec. 494, 497 (BIA 2022) (recognizing 
that we are not required decide on other eligibility factors when a filing party cannot satisfy one 
dispositive element). The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets four criteria, because his arguments fail on 
the criteria we discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of criteria 
and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements under the leading or 
critical role requirement. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when 
another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 
576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22642744 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a doctor who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a urologist who has studied the integration of traditional and western medicine, and 
was the director of urological surgery at his hospital when he filed the petition. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before 
the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following eight categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities; and 
• High salary or remuneration. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and the 
authorship of scholarly articles, but he had not satisfied the other criteria listed above. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material and awards. 
But he does not raise and has therefore abandoned or waived his claims under the membership, original 
contributions, leading or critical role, and high salary or remuneration criteria. Matter of 
Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022). After reviewing all the evidence in the 
record, we conclude he has not demonstrated eligibility for this highly restrictive classification. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner 
2 
claimed several awards and the Director determined that each was not nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field, or the record did not establish they were issued for excellence in the field. 
First, in his appeal the Petitioner essentially restates his claims as presented to the Director and does 
not describe how the Director might have erred in their analysis as it relates to his awards. Further, 
we conclude the record lacks sufficient evidence to demonstrate his awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field. 
The Petitioner presented his 2010 third prize ___________ ward issued by the 
municipal government in I I As this award was issued by the municipal government, and because 
the Petitioner has not offered probative material establishing its recognition goes beyond the issuing 
entity, it appears to be regional in nature. Even accolades issued by a government might not be 
nationally recognized in the field. A petitioner should offer probative evidence showing an award 
receives at least national-level attention that goes beyond the issuing governing body (e.g., within a 
petitioner's field). The Petitioner has not offered evidence demonstrating this award is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field. 
Next, the Petitioner submits two awards issued by the Medicine. 
In 2020, this organization issued him a first prize award and in 2011 they granted him the second prize 
award; each accolade was a science and technology award. We observe the translated document 
detailing this award's plans reflects that this award is issued to collectives and individuals who have 
achieved a certain level of results in basic study. However, the document continues stating "[p ]rojects 
that have won this award will be recommended for National Science and Technology Awards based 
on the principle of meritocracy." The Petitioner's awards appear to be at a level lesser than those that 
are nationally or internationally recognized in the field. 
The final awards the Petitioner claims on appeal are third prize science and technology awards in the 
2007 and 20 l 0 events. Thel Medical Sciences issued these awards. Even 
though we acknowledge the issuing entity's reputation, the Petitioner has not established that these 
awards, from more than a decade before he filed the petition, were nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field. National and international recognition results, not from the individual who 
signed or issued the prize or the award, but through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the 
field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for 
example, but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Sufficiently probative 
evidence that an award is nationally or internationally recognized is generally material from sources 
besides the issuing entity. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 183 (D.N.J. 2021). 
Although the Petitioner demonstrates he has received accolades for his work, we conclude he has not 
submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
3 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner identifies the authorship of scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and for supportive evidence under that requirement, he discusses an article that the 
Petitioner did not author. It is unclear why the Petitioner has identified this evidence on appeal as the 
Director determined his evidence satisfied the scholarly articles criterion. In case the brief mistakenly 
placed the discussion of published material under the portion in which the Petitioner mentions 
scholarly articles, we discuss the published material criterion here. 
The Petitioner discussed one article before the Director, and he presents the same material on appeal. 
While the Director focused on other requirements in their denial decision, we also note additional 
deficiencies. First, the article is in a foreign language but it is not accompanied by a certified 
translation, which is a requirement of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The regulation requires that the translator 
certifies the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to 
translate from the foreign language into English. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated 
material is accurate and thus supports his claims. The information relating to this publication has a 
translation suffering from this same shortcoming. 
Moreover, the translated material does not contain the article's date as the regulation requires. Finally, 
the Petitioner did not identify the circulation figures for other publications in China by which it can be 
determined through comparison that Long Life Magazine is one of the qualifying publication types. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting 
that "[ee ]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major 
media publications about the person should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics .... "). In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
4 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675486 Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability . See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the 
Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. ANALYSIS 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's ultimate determination with the 
added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday 
v. I.NS., 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the practice ofadopting and affirming the decision 
below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); 
Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) Uoining eight U.S. Courts of Appeals in holding that 
appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized 
consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner filed the initial petition with a large amount of evidence, but he did not adequately 
instruct the Director of how the material applied to any particular regulatory criterion. The Director 
issued a request for evidence and in response the Petitioner included some additional infonnation 
about awards as well as the criteria he was claiming, but that response still lacked a description of 
what evidence applied to those other criteria and how it demonstrated his eligibility. 
The Director denied the petition offering a brief analysis relating to the Petitioner's claimed one-time 
achievement and the lesser prizes or awards criterion, noting he did not satisfy the requirements for 
either of them. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates his claims of a one-time achievement and he again 
lists the criteria he claims to meet, but he only offers a broad statement that the Director was incorrect 
to deny his petition. Like the filing before the Director, the Petitioner's appellate filing lacks specific 
arguments relating to each regulatory requirement, the evidence that applies to each criterion, and an 
explanation of how that evidence satisfies each criterion. 
This is not an adequate basis to contest the Director's adverse decision on the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the 
means to remedy what they perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a 
decision in a previous proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). By presenting only a generalized 
statement without explaining the specific aspects of the denial they consider to be incorrect, the 
affected party has failed to identify the basis for the appeal. Matter of Valencia, 19 I&N Dec. 354, 
354-55 (BIA 1986). We consider those issues (the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x)) 
waived on appeal. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 
25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and finding when a filing party mentions an issue without 
developing an argument, the issue is deemed waived). 
As it relates to the Petitioner's claimed one-time achievement , he asserts the "Hispanic American 
World Congress and the World Congress of Universities Award is only given to prestigious 
personalities who have left their mark on their work worldwide." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence purporting to be a 
major, internationally recognized award. Congress intended to restrict this immigrant classification 
to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the 
regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, 
with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. 
Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. 
Given that the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time 
achievement, examples of one-time awards which enjoy major, international recognition may include 
the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and (most relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The selection ofNobel Laureates, 
the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees , is a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. 
While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement 
without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the foreign national's field as one of the top 
awards in that field. 
Although the Petitioner's identified award is an achievement, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
requires the one-time achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner 
did not present evidence, for example, establishing that this award is widely reported by international 
media, is recognized by the general public, or gamers attention comparable to other major, globally 
2 
recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. He relies on a letter from the issuing entity but 
does not offer adequate coverage of this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
his receipt of this award meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
II. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24829454 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional Saddlebred Horse trainer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional Saddlebred Horse trainer who has participated in show horse 
competitions in South Africa and the United States. The Petitioner currently operates a horse training 
and sales facility inl I Kentucky. She intends to continue to train and show horses 
competitively in the United States. 
The record shows that the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate both that she received a major, 
internationally recognized award, and that she satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that, while the Petitioner did not establish 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, she met one of the five criteria she claimed 
to have satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work in her field of endeavor. 1 The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), 
(iii), and (v). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets these additional criteria, as well as the 
requirements pertaining to receipt of a major internationally recognized award; she states that U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) misapplied the law and misinterpreted the facts of the 
case. 
As more fully discussed below, we agree, in part, with the Director's analysis of the evidence. Where 
we disagree we have provided an explanation of our determination. We conclude that the evidence of 
record does not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, we will dismiss the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Director noted in his decision that 
the record should demonstrate that the award is internationally recognized and generally regarded as 
a major award in the field. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner cited her first­
place awards at the World's Championship Horse Show inl I Kentucky, in 2019, 2020, and 
2021, as well as her receipt of four I I Championship titles. The record includes 
documentation of these awards and information about the competition's history from the event's 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
website. The Director's decision implies some doubt as to whether the Petitioner won the awards she 
claims to have won. The Director noted that the Petitioner's name does not appear on certain trophies 
and he concluded that lists showing the Petitioner's placement results "are not official documents," 
declining to use information provided to assess the veracity of the placement results through 
subscription-only access to a website, com. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the absence of her name from the trophies should not be conclusive evidence that did not win the titles 
she claims to have won; she refers to documentation in the form of letters of endorsement, certificates, 
and competition records as corroborating evidence of her receipt of the awards, 
Upon review of the record, the Petitioner has established that she received the awards; the record 
includes letters of endorsement that reference the Petitioner winning several of the awards listed, and 
the Petitioner verified her wins through online sources. As to whether the awards are regarded as 
major, internationally recognized achievements, the Director determined that there was no objective 
evidence to assess the scope of the awards' recognition; the record did not include evidence that the 
competition for the awards is recognized by the general public, that competition results are widely 
reported in international media, or that the awards gamer attention comparable to other major, globally 
recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes from a Wikipedia page for the I I 
which promotes the event as "the world's richest and most 
prestigious horse show." The Petitioner also asserts, 
[T]he very phrase 'World Champion' denotes that the achievement is a major 
achievement of international renown-the very top, in fact, in Petitioner's field of 
expertise of Saddlebred horse training and competing in the global equine industry. 
These World Championship Titles have garnered Petitioner international attention, 
renown, and permanence in her field of expertise. 
The record, however, does not include documentation to corroborate this assertion. While letters of 
endorsement speak to the Petitioner's accomplishments as a Saddlebred Horse trainer and competitor, 
neither the letters nor other documentation in the record provide evidence showing that the World 
Championship Horse Show grants an award or prize that is considered to be internationally recognized. 
Because the record does not provide evidence to establish that the Petitioner's awards constitute a one­
time achievement of a caliber considered to be internationally recognized within the field, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established eligibility in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
In addition to evidence to establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate her qualifications under four of the alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor. 2 The Petitioner 
submitted evidence of numerous awards and show placements that she has received throughout her 
career, including photos of trophies, lists of competition results, information about horse show events 
in which she competed, evidence of relevant association memberships, and letters of endorsement. 
The Director determined that this evidence did not establish that the Petitioner met the requirements 
of this criterion. As described above, the Director dismissed lists showing the Petitioner's placement 
results and did not to give evidentiary weight to photos of trophies that do not depict the Petitioner's 
name. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the letters of endorsement, certificates, and competition 
records serve to verify her achievements. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has established her receipt of the claimed awards. While the trophies 
do not identify her by name, the competition results and letters of endorsement corroborate her claims 
of receiving the awards corresponding to the trophies. The placement results and awards are also 
corroborated by the letters of endorsement and by online sources. A separate portion of the Director's 
decision focused on the categorization of the Petitioner's field of expertise as encompassing her 
abilities as both a trainer and a competitor. The Director affirmed that the Petitioner must establish 
her extraordinary ability as either a trainer or a competitor and dismissed this claim of combined roles 
as an assertion from the Petitioner's counsel; the Director stated that the assertions of counsel do not 
constitute evidence3 and concluded that no evidence was submitted to establish that the terms are used 
interchangeably. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that her abilities training and showing horses 
competitively are interconnected and should not be viewed as separate occupations. We disagree with 
the Director's characterization of the Petitioner's occupation and field of expertise; the evidence 
identifies the Petitioner as a horse trainer and a competitor at shows in which she has received awards 
based on the performance of horses that she trained and presented. However, we agree with the 
Director's analysis of whether the record demonstrates that the Petitioner's awards are lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes; the record does not include documentation to demonstrate on 
what scale the Petitioner's awards are recognized. The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements 
for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the fieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the associations is based on the 
individual being judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner has been a member of several equestrian associations in South Africa and currently is a 
2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, 
but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards 
or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 See Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 (BIA 1988); Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 
1980). 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 
member of the followin or anizations in the United States: the aforementioned I 
While 
additional documentation concerning admittance to the South African associations was not included 
in the record, bylaws for the latter three groups provide requirements for membership such as age, 
length of experience, participation as a competitor, employment in the field of equestrianism, 
character, and payment of dues. The Director determined that membership in these associations did 
not appear to require outstanding achievements as assessed by experts in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner reiterates that "these associations are limited to professionals who derive their income from 
the equestrian field, and some, such as I I further limit their membership to those they find 
acceptable both personally and professionally." While the record demonstrates that the Petitioner had 
to meet certain requirements to become a member of these associations, the record does not include 
documentation showing that membership in these associations requires the attainment of any specific 
achievements judged as outstanding by experts in the field. The Petitioner has not established that she 
meets the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in her field of endeavor. The Petitioner initially submitted an article from Farmer's Weekly that 
featured the work of her mother, which the Director concluded was not about the Petitioner. The 
Petitioner also included articles that consist of her photo and reference her participation or placement 
at shows during her childhood in South Africa. The Director noted that these brief articles appear to 
have been from regional publications and do not identify authors, determining that the Petitioner did 
not submit any qualifying material from professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
We note that the record also contains pages that include photos of the Petitioner and other individuals 
presenting at horse shows; these appear to be promotional materials from I IS tables in 
Kentucky and other businesses in the region, which also do not qualify as material about the Petitioner 
from major publications. On appeal, the Petitioner states that these and the Farmer's Weekly article 
are "relevant to Petitioner's work and competition in the field of endeavor in that the expertise and 
skills gained during her youth, addressed in the article( s ), has [sic] enabled her to achieve the superior 
status in the industry that she has today." The Petitioner does not acknowledge the lack of substance 
or absence of authors for these articles that note her early participation in horse shows. While the 
articles may demonstrate the Petitioner's history of participation in the field, the record does not 
demonstrate that the articles qualify for the requirements of this criterion; the record does not include 
documentation from professional or major trade publications or other major media concerning the 
Petitioner and her work in the field. The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, the record must establish that the Petitioner has received a salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to other individuals working in the field of 
5 
endeavor. The record includes salary information for animal and horse trainers from the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics' O*Net and Zippia.com, respectively, as well as tax documents and internal financial 
information from _________ The Director determined that, because the record does 
not include documentation showing the Petitioner's individual earnings, she has not established her 
eligibility under this criterion. A draft5 copy of page one of the 2021 partnership tax return forl I I I shows gross receipts or sales at $667,589 and ordinary business income totaling 
$254,686, which the Petitioner asserted in response to the RFE and asserts again on appeal is a sum 
of "more than four times the prevailing wage in that field." The Petitioner states that, because she 
owns and runs the business, "the company's earnings are directly related to [her] remuneration." 
However, the Petitioner is not the sole member of I I instead, the record 
indicates that she owns only 50% of the membership interests of the limited liability company (LLC). 
The Petitioner did not provide the remaining pages of the LLC' s 2021 partnership tax return, including 
all schedules, to evince her 50% share of its income, deductions, credits, and other items. Further, the 
tax return does not indicate that the LLC paid her any salaries, wages, or guaranteed payments to 
partners. Additionally, the record does not contain the Petitioner's personal tax returns or wage 
statements. Thus, we are unable to determine her salary and other remuneration for services, and how 
such remuneration relates to other individuals working in the field, based on the insufficient 
documentation in the record. 
The record also includes evaluations of the company from the company's bookkeeper and from the 
Petitioner herself The bookkeeper estimates that, in combination with the Petitioner's skillset and the 
fact that the business operates in both the training and sale of horses, the business has a "25-30% 
higher earning potential than other horse trainers in this area." The Petitioner's evaluation estimates 
the value of the business at $386,000. These estimates are not supported by objective financial 
information for the Petitioner's business as it compares to other similar businesses, and the estimates 
to not provide specific insights into the Petitioner's salary or other remuneration for services. We note 
that also absent from the record is evidence of earnings accrued through any prizes awarded to the 
Petitioner through competitions at which prize money was purportedly awarded. The evidence of 
record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other remuneration 
for services in relation to others in her field. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that she meets 
the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
5 Because this tax return does not appear to have been filed and processed by the Internal Revenue Service, it is of limited 
probative value in these proceedings. The Petitioner must support her Assertions with relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
6 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25431793 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional tennis player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional tennis player who outlined his achievements to include, in part, playing 
in every grand slam tournament and reaching an international rank ofc=J for men's singles. The 
Petitioner stated that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have been 
recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown 
that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of 
these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met one criterion pertaining to the receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other 
claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the one criterion met by the Petitioner. 
But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted online articles from various websites and publications. In his decision, the 
2 
Director indicated that he reviewed the articles submitted and found that none of the articles met plain 
language requirements of the regulation since some articles lacked the URL address or the author, and 
the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish that the cited sources qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On a eal the Petitioner states that the article submitted meets the plain language of the regulation: ________ _______ written by land published at 
atptour.corn on __ 2016. On appeal, the Petitioner submits the full URL address, and a printout 
from rankranger.corn that lists the organic traffic of atptour.corn as 22.5 million. However, the record 
does not contextualize this statistic, indicate its significance, or elaborate on how that information 
could establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The submitted materials therefore do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show atptour.corn as major 
media. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
The Petitioner further states that he was part of a media program produced by People Daily and 
featured on many affiliating major media platforms, including people.en. The media coverage 
occurred on 2019, and it was called I I On appeal, 
the Petitioner submits the program that was posted on the People Daily 's online platform, 
www.people.cn. However, the Petitioner did not provide the full transcript of the media coverage to 
include the information of the author and reporter of this program. 
The Petitioner also submits additional articles about him posted to tennis.corn. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits the website visitation and ranking data for tennis.corn from SirnilarWeb.corn. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policyrnanual ( discussing circulation or viewership ). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts tennis.corn received 2.8 million visits. The website statistics from SirnilarWeb.corn indicate 
that tennis.corn ranks 28,978 globally and eighth in sports and tennis in the United States; it also shows 
the average amount of visits to the website and time viewers spend on the website. However, the 
record does not contextualize those statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that 
information could establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article about him from tennisworldusa.org, and a printout from 
TennisWorld USA stating it has "more than 50 million readers per year." However, this is a self­
reported figure from the website's editor or publisher. The Petitioner did not support the record with 
independent, objective evidence corroborating the website's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 
9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that the 
agency did not have to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to 
the magazine's status as major media). Without more information, it is not clear if this is major media. 
Despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as a professional tennis player. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]]ublished material about the alien 
3 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the 
field for which classification is sought [emphasis added]." As noted by the Director, the Petitioner 
intends to enter the United States as a tennis coach. Therefore, any published material as a competitor 
is not within the Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of 
expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding reflect, that the 
Petitioner has had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion when his remuneration is compared 
specifically to other Chinese professional tennis players. The Petitioner did not submit financial 
evidence such as tax returns or income statements. Instead, the Petitioner utilized the information 
found on atptour.com regarding career prize money earned by professional tennis la ers on the ATP 
tour. The Petitioner rovides a printout from atptour.com of the 
and their prize money earned from ATP events that listed the _ 
_____________ for each player, including the Petitioner. These figures appear 
to constitute earnings over the course of each player's career. The remuneration of the Petitioner and 
four additional players were listed as: $1,106768; $748,947; $639,331; $425,427; and, $406,732. The 
Petitioner earned the second highest remuneration at $748,947. 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, one of those individuals in 
that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Commensurate with 
such standing, the Petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in his 
occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. In the instance circumstance, the 
Petitioner claims extraordinary ability as a tennis player, yet compares his remuneration only to other 
Chinese professional tennis players and not all professional tennis players. The Petitioner has not 
shown that this is indicative of significantly high remuneration consistent within the plain meaning of 
this criterion. For this reason, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), it is 
unnecessary for us to reach a decision on this additional ground because he cannot numerically meet 
the required number of criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings 
and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22652791 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement or that he satisfied at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director incorrectly 
concluded that the Petitioner does not meet the high level of expertise required for this classification. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in I medicine I I medicine, and l _____ I I and previously worked for thel !Hospital. The Petitioner has not indicated 
that he received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
six of these criteria, relating to membership in associations, judging, original scientific contributions 
of major significance, authorship of scholarly articles, a leading or critical role, and a high salary. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles and judging. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three other claimed criteria, 
relating to a leading or critical role, membership in associations, and a high salary. Upon review of 
the record, we agree with the Director on the scholarly article and judging but conclude that the 
Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires "[d]ocumentation of the 
alien's membership in associations in the field for which is classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields." In order to demonstrate that membership in an association meets this 
criterion, a petitioner must show that the association requires outstanding achievement as an essential 
condition for admission to membership. 
2 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on being approved for the fellowship of 
the Academy of Physicians in Clinical Research (APCR). The Petitioner submitted a letter from the I I of the APCR, which states that fellowship of the APCR is reserved for the APCR 
members who have demonstrated their commitment to the organization, achievements as researchers, 
and leadership in the field of clinical research. The letter indicates that accepted criteria includes: (1) 
academic degree in clinical research or medicines development; (2) clinical research training 
certificates; (3) other advanced degrees and the American Board of Medical Specialties Board 
Certification; (4) publications in peer reviewed journals; (5) contributions to national or international 
conferences; (6) leadership in professional association related to clinical research; (7) participation in 
phase I-IV clinical trials; (8) a member of a medicines development team or the Medical Director of a 
clinical research site; (9) fostering clinical research or medicines development in the community; (10) 
academic positions in clinical research; (11) work in regulatory agencies related to clinical research 
and medicines development; (12) awards and recognitions for contributions to clinical research; (13) 
innovation; and (14) membership at the APCR. The record does not reflect that the fellowship of the 
APCR requires outstanding achievements of its members. Instead, the fellowship of the 
APCR requires education, training, professional association, publications, contributions, professional 
experience, innovation, and membership at the APCR. Membership requirements based on 
employment or activity in a given field, education, professional experience, professional association, 
publications, participation in conferences, contributions to a given field, or payment of dues to be a 
member do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. 
Although the evidence in the record demonstrates the Petitioner's fellowship of the APCR and that 
the individuals responsible for judging the fellowship of APCR are comprised of recognized national 
experts consistent with this regulatory criterion, the record does not reflect that outstanding 
achievements are required for the fellowship of the APCR. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner points out previously submitted documents to establish that he meets this criterion but 
does not provide additional arguments or additional documents. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885, at 
*1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise 
them on appeal). Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation." In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in 
which the alien was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
3 
The Petitioner claims that he has performed in a critical role forl I Hospital. The 
Petitioner submitted a letter from a medical doctor forl I Program atl I Hospital, 
which states that the Petitioner is a leading physician who played a critical role for the hospital's success 
in treating patients with I I diseases. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the Director 
of I services at _____ Hospital, which states that the Petitioner has participated 
in the Steering Committee and in obtaining the Accreditation 
for Hospital. The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence from the I I 
_ Hospital website about its accreditation but did not submit any independent, objective evidence 
demonstrating that I I Hospital has a distinguished reputation. For example, the record 
does not contain media coverage, evidence of significant awards, published ranking, or other sufficient 
evidence to establish that I I Hospital has been very successful in its hospital business 
and has a good reputation or thatl I Hospital is an esteemed and renowned hospital in the 
United States for treating patients hospitalized withl !diseases. 
The Petitioner also claims that he has performed in a critical role for the Massachusetts Cha ter of the 
American College of Physicians (ACP). The Petitioner submitted a letter from the of the 
Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP, which states that the Petitioner served as the Co-Chair ofth I I committee; was involved with advocacy efforts as a member of the Health and Public 
Policy Committee; and was invited to represent the ACP at thel I meetings to advocate in 
support of thel I bills. The Petitioner submitted information about the ACP and the Massachusetts 
Chapter of the ACP from the ACP website but did not submit any independent, objective evidence 
demonstrating that the Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP has a distinguished reputation. For example, 
the Petitioner did not submit any documentary evidence that distinguishes the Massachusetts Chapter of 
the ACP from other highly regarded professional associations or medical-specialty societies. 
Although the Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in critical roles for I ______ 
Hospital and the Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP, the Petitioner did not establish that they have a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in the field." 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his salary as a hospitalist at 
I I Hospital in I Massachusetts. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Director of 
Human Resources Department of I Hospital, which confirms that the Petitioner was 
employed as a hospitalist and that his salary for clinical services was $275,000 per year. The Petitioner 
also submitted Forms W-2 (wage and tax statements) for 2019 and 2020, which indicate that the 
Petitioner earned $298,641.12 in 2019 and $325,550.50 in 2020. 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on his annual salary of $275,000, which is more than 
$37,194 above the yearly prevailing wage of physicians and surgeons in the I I I I Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. The Petitioner submitted "Online Wage Library-
4 
Foreign Labor Certification Data Center Wage Search Results" indicating that the prevailing wage for 
fully competent (level 4) physicians and surgeons in the I Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire areas was $237,806 per year.1 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence 
showing that he has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in 
the field, not a salary that is above the amount paid to the majority of fully competent physicians and 
surgeons in the _________ Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. 
The Petitioner also submitted salary information for general internal medicine physicians, hospitalists, 
and physicians inl I Massachusetts, from various websites, including CareerOneStop, O*N et 
OnLine, Physician Compensation Report 2020, payscale, glassdoor, and salary.com. Regarding these 
various websites and report, these surveys measure the average statistics of general internal medicine 
physicians, hospitalists, or physicians inl I Massachusetts. These surveys only provides 
average salary data for general internal medicine physicians, hospitalists, and physicians in I 
Massachusetts, and do not identify the high-end salaries for those performing work with similar 
responsibilities as the Petitioner. The plain language of the regulation requires the Petitioner to 
establish his salary is high when compared to others in the field. As such, average statistics do not 
meet this requirement. 
The Petitioner compares his sala as a leading physician and the Lead of 
Hospital Department at Hospital to salaries of other physicians, surgeons, internists, 
and hospitalists in Massachusetts. He did not establish that he commanded a high salary 
in relation to others as a leading physician and the Lead. Both precedent and 
case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the 
field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he was not employed by I I Hospital as a 
___ or a lead physician and that thel I Lead is a voluntary role that he accepted du due to his experience as a physician-scientist focusing on the treatment ofl I 
in hospital settings. The Petitioner further asserts that this is not a compensated position within I Hospital and that all the salary he received during his tenure was based on his 
services as a hospitalist. The Petitioner submitted various documents to support the claim that he 
qualifies as an alien of extraordinary ability based on his roles, among other thin s, as a leadin 
physician and thel I Lead. Since the Petitioner claims that the 
I I Lead is a voluntary role, which is not a compensated position within 
Hospital, the record does not reflect that he has commanded a high salary for his services in relation 
to other leading physicians or the Lead at other hospitals. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
1 A "prevailing wage" is defined as "trade and public work wages paid to the majority of workers in a specific area." See 
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/prevailing-wage.html, copy incorporated into the record of proceeding. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has shown that he is a talented and accomplished 
physician specializing inl I medicineJ I medicine, and _______ but the 
record as a whole does not demonstrate a level of recognition that indicates the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24017952 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive aircraft model pilot, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility for 
the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enterthe United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserted that 
he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iv); however, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfies only the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts 
that he satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii) in addition to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the 
conclusion, that he satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(x). After reviewing the record in 
its entirety, we conclude that it does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of 
at least three criteria, for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 's] membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought. which require outstanding achievements of their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record contains a copy of the Petitioner's identification card from the Ministry of Youth and 
Sports of Ukraine, written in a language other than English, and a certified English translation of it. 
The translation of the identification card indicates that the Petitioner bears the title of Master of Sports 
of Ukraine in Aeromodelling. The Petitioner asserts that this satisfies 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner asserted that the Ministry of 
Youth and Sports of Ukraine awards the title of Master of Sports of Ukraine "to athletes ... for 
compliance with qualification rules and requirements to the relevant sport, approved in the manner 
prescribed by law, provided that there are three judges of national or international category in the panel 
of judges at all-Ukrainian competitions." The Petitioner also submitted a certificate from the 
Ukrainian Federation of Aeromodelling and Dron [sic] Sport in response to the RFE, indicating that 
the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine awarded the Petitioner the title of Master of Sports of 
Ukraine for finishing in first place at the 2017 Championship of Ukraine. The certificate further 
indicates that the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine is part of the Cabinet of Ministers of 
Ukraine. The certificate is supplemented with a copy of Appendix 1 to Qualification Norms and 
Requirements of the Ukrainian Unified Sports Classification of Non-Olympic Sports, specifically 
2 
aeromodelling sports, from the Ukrainian Federation of Aeromodelling, and a certified English 
translation of it. The appendix provides criteria for participation in junior and adult competitions, and 
it further indicates that certain performance results, such as" 1-3 at the Championship of Ukraine" or 
setting a national record in certain competitions are qualification criteria for the title of Master of 
Sports of Ukraine. 
The Director concluded thatthe evidence regarding the Petitioner's title of Master of Sp01is of Ukraine 
does not establish that he is a member in an association in the field that requires outstanding 
achievements of their members, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )(3 )(ii). Specifically, the Director 
found that the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine is a governmental body, not an association in 
the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that "[t]he title 'Master of Sp01is of Ukraine' ... is not easy to earn. 
One of the conditions for it to be awarded is that the applicant must participate in the competition, 
where the refereeing will be at least three judges with the international category." The Petitioner 
further asserts on appeal that the appendix submitted with the Petitioner's certificate in response to the 
Director's RFE establishes that there is "a clear list of qualifications a member must satisfy to become 
a Master of Sports of Ukraine" and that "there is a paiiicularprocedure implemented by the recognized 
international experts to evaluate evidence provided to prove those qualifications." The Petitioner 
alternately refers to the title of Master of Sports of Ukraine as "the status of Master of Sports." 
Although the record establishes that the Petitioner holds the title, or status, of Master of Sports of 
Ukraine issued by a governmental body, the record does not establish that such titleholders or status 
bearers are members of any particular association. Because the record does not address any particular 
association, it does not establish that the Petitioner is a member of an association in the field for which 
classification is sought. Therefore, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material a bout the [ noncitizen] in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the [non citizen's] work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date. and author of the 
material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains copies of three blog posts about the Petitioner, written in a language other than 
English, and certified English translations of them. In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner 
that the record does not establish that the blog posts are published material about the Petitioner in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, in part because the record does not 
establish that the blogs are widely read in order to constitute major media. The Petitioner provided 
letters from the editors of the blog post websites in response to the RFE, which provided general 
information about the authors of the blog posts, the dates of publication, and the number of views the 
posts received. The record also contains website statistics from a website called SimilarWeb. 
3 
The Director acknowledged the letters from the editors; however, the Director found that the record 
does not establish that the blog posts constitute major media as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii).1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that a prior, non-precedent decision, Matter of A-S-, 2018 WL 
1168942, *3 (AAO 2018), "states that submission by the petitioner an article [sic] which includes the 
title, date, and author and that constitutes published material about the petitioner relating to his career, 
together with evidence showing that the magazine qualifies as a major media, establishes that the 
petitioner satisfies the criteria." The Petitioner reasserts that the letters from the editors and website 
statistics establish that websites that published the blog posts are "top-ranked media in sports." 
The Petitioner refers to our non-precedent decision concerning a professional DJ and music producer 
who did not establish that he satisfied at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Moreover, Matter of A-S-stated 
that the petitioner in that case "provided evidence showing that the magazine qualifies as a major 
medium," without specifying the particular evidence in that record and how it demonstrated that 
magazine qualified as a major medium. Matter of A-S-, 2018 WL 1168942 at *3. Accordingly, the 
non-precedent decision Matter of A-S-provides neither controlling nor persuasive guidance in this 
matter. 
We first note that one of the three website statistics does not apply to the website that published a blog 
post about the Petitioner. Specifically, one of the websites bears the URL https://champion.com.ua, 
and the letter from the editor of that website describes Champion.com.ua as "the oldest Ukrainian 
sports site." However, the website statistics from Similar Web in the record relate to "champion.com," 
which the statistics describe as the 198th mostpopular"fashionand apparel" website and 4,908thmost 
popular website in the United States. Therefore, the record does not contain website statistics 
regarding the Ukrainian sports site at the URL https://champion.com.ua. 
The record does not otherwise establish that the three blog posts about the Petitioner were published 
by major media, as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The letters from the editors, as 
translated in the record, describe the websites as "the leading Ukrainian sports release," "a Ukrainian 
sports website dedicated to domestic and foreign sports," and "the oldest Ukrainian sports site," 
respectively. The website statistics in the record that relate to the two remaining websites indicate that 
they rank 206th and 2,685th in Ukraine, respectively, and that approximately 85% of both websites' 
traffic comes from Ukraine; however, the record does not contextualize those statistics and elaborate 
on how that information may establish that the websites are the type of major media contemplated by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For example, although the website statistics also indicate the average 
number of visits the websites receive monthly, the record does not explain how that a predominantly 
Ukrainian audience of any particular size is a substantial enough portion of the overall Ukrainian 
1 Although the Director found that at least one of the blog posts does not identify its author, the Petitioner clarifies on 
appeal the locations in the blogposts where the names of the authors appeared. We withdraw the Director's statement to 
the contra1y. 
4 
population for those statistics to indicate that the websites are major media. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F App'x, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing that evidence of published material 
in major media about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership 
is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material.). Because the record does not establish that the three websites that 
published blog posts about the Petitioner are major media, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the record does not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iii), and because the 
Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that the record satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(v )-(x), we need not determine whether the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) because, even if it did, it would not satisfy at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In summation, the record does not satisfy a least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which 
is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372895 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an event producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director did not conduct a 
proper final merits determination. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to published material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, his participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field, and his 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. We agree that the Petitioner has met the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
1 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy Memo), https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to dete1mine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
2 
The Petitioner asserted that he has received attention from major media publications, which discuss 
him and his work as an event producer. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has submitted 
some articles that appeared in publications, such as El Universo, El Comercio, and El Telegrafo, but 
determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the level of media attention he received is 
indicative of his status of as one of the very top event producers in the country. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in denying the petition by generally asserting 
that the evidence does not demonstrate that the level of media attention he received is indicative of his 
status as one of the very top event producers in the country. The Petitioner submitted 18 articles in 
which he is briefly quoted in publications. 17 of these 18 articles only cite, quote, or reference the 
Petitioner and do not discuss the Petitioner and his work as an event producer. These articles are about 
music concerts or live performance events, which were organized or produced by the production 
company where the Petitioner previously worked, and about singers, bands, or other musical groups 
to be performed at such concerts or events. Some of these articles also discuss ticket price, ticket sales 
location, and ticket sales dates, and these articles appear to be marketing or promotional materials for 
such concerts or events. In addition, 13 of these 18 articles do not provide the author(s) of these 
articles. These articles were published by El Universo, RPP, El Comercio, Metro Ecuador, El 
Telegrafo, Mariela TV, Taringa, Ecuador Times, and Expresiones. While the Petitioner submitted 
documentation showing that RPP, El Comercio, Metro Ecuador, and El Telegrafo are major media, 
the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to show that El Universo, Mariela TV, Taringa, 
Ecuardor Times, and Exresiones are professional publications, major trade publications, or other major 
media. Only 1 of these 18 articles, which was submitted in response to the request for evidence, 
discusses the Petitioner and his work as a media director, this article was published in El Comercio, 
which was shown to be major media, and this article includes the author. The article mentions the 
Petitioner as a media director of a production company who brought thel I to a stage in 
I I Ecuador. The article further states that the Petitioner was hired by the production company 
when he was 22 years old because he "talked concentrated," "had a virtue," and "knew how to listen." 
This article does not demonstrate that the Petitioner was hired by the production company because he 
is known to be an outstanding event producer or because of his status as one of the very top event 
producers in Ecuador. We conclude that the publication of a single article in major media, which 
discusses the Petitioner as a media director who brought a popular American I Ito a stage in a 
city in Ecuador, does not indicate that the Petitioner has achieved national or international acclaim in 
the entertainment industry as an event producer and is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner asserted that he previously participated as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
allied filed. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted two letters from ________ 
Extra Radio S.A., which state that the Petitioner served as a jury that selects an artist to receive an 
award for musical career at the sixth edition of the Awards in 2019. The letters also state 
that the wards have been held since 2014 and that it is an event that rewards the talent of 
the Ecuadorian performers. The Director determined that although the Petitioner has acted as a judge, 
the record did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim resulted 
in his selection to serve as a judge of the work of others in the field. The Director added that it is not 
unusual for professionals to serve on various panels. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he had to follow a specific criterion to select the winner, including 
years in the industry, career achievements, stage presence, and music tracks released. The Petitioner 
further asserts that he was chosen due to his professional career and achievements. However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that a single instance of selecting the winner to receive the award for musical 
career at thel !Awards ceremony reflects sustained acclaim at the national or international 
level or elevates his standing as one of few top event producers in the field. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has displayed his work at live events and productions in Ecuador and 
Latin America. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted copies of about 48 access/backstage 
badges showing the production company or authorized personnel for different music concerts and 
promotional materials for such concerts. The Director noted that only two of these badges show the 
Petitioner's name. The Petitioner also submitted two letters of support from the Director of a radio 
station and the Director of a promotion, marketing, and advertising company. One letter states that 
the Petitioner developed or worked together with various national artists, produced international shows 
and important events, and made a great contribution in the field of entertainment. The other letter 
states that the Petitioner worked in partnership with a promotion company, which produces the tours 
of prominent artists, and that the Petitioner displayed his professionalism and knowledge while 
producing each concert. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has produced events for 
musical groups for their stage performances but found that while these events may be considered 
artistic showcases, they displayed the artist's work, not the event producer's work. As such, the 
Director determined that the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate a level of distinction that sets 
the Petitioner apart from others in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the fact that the Petitioner has been selected to produce 
distinguished productions and organizations indicates that not just any event producer could have 
performed this work and he was, therefore, selected in recognition of his superior standing in the field. 
However, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support this claim. As noted above, the 
Petitioner provided various articles about music concerts or live performance events that were 
organized by a production company for which he worked as an event producer. The Petitioner 
submitted an article, which was published in El Comercio and mentions the Petitioner as a media 
director of the production company who brought a popular American! Ito a stage inl I 
Ecuador. The article states that the Petitioner was hired by the production company when he was 22 
years old because of his virtue, focus, and listening skills. This article does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner was hired by the production company because of his superior standing in the field or his 
status as one of the very top event producers in Ecuador. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also contends that because the Director did not consider the evidence related 
to the display, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he is an individual of extraordinary ability. In the request for evidence, the Director acknowledged 
that the Petitioner submitted copies of over 40 access/backstage badges showing the production 
company or authorized personnel for different artists or concerts and two letters of support as evidence 
of the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. As noted above, in his decision, the 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has produced events for musical groups for their stage 
performances but determined that these events displayed the artist's work, not the event producer's 
work. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he displayed his work as an event producer at various 
concerts or events. The Petitioner organized concerts or events for musicians and musical groups, and 
4 
the work of these musicians and musical groups was displayed at the concerts or events. The Petitioner 
did not show that he displayed his producing skills rather than overseeing the work of others. The 
Petitioner did not show that his producing contributions resulted in his work being displayed at 
concerts or events rather than musical talents and performance skills of musicians and musical groups 
resulted in their work being displayed at their concerts or events. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has performed in a leading or critical role for I and the 
Municipal District of I The Petitioner submitted a letter from a singer, producer, director, and 
musical composer of l promotional materials showing the Petitioner's role with I 
__ from 1993 to 2006, and materials about I I reputation. The Director noted 
that the Petitioner's many roles demonstrated his experience and skills as an event producer but 
determined that the Petitioner has not showed that his work is of such significance that it led to the 
successes of various productions and musical groups. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not directly address the reasons for his 
conclusion that the Petitioner's leading or critical role does not support an overall finding of sustained 
national or international acclaim and that he is one of the very top event roducers from his home 
country of Ecuador. It appears that the Petitioner was the mana er of a popular 
Ecuadorian! lwhich was formed in I Ecuador, in ________ Although 
the record shows that the Petitioner performed in a critical role for the success of the Ecuadorian which which won several awards for its popularity and excellence in the music entertainment industry 
from 1999 to 2008, the record does not show that the Petitioner continues to maintain a comparable 
level of acclaim in the field as a manager. 
Regarding his leading role for the Municipal District of I the Petitioner submitted published 
materials about various cultural events, festivals, and activities held in an and an alliance between I land a cultural institute to strengthen the topic of culture in These articles reference the 
Petitioner as the Secretary of Culture of the Municipality. While these articles show that the Petitioner 
performed in a leading role for the Municipal District of I as the Secretary of Culture to promote 
culture within the district, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate thatl I 
has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner asserts that the position of the Secretary of Culture for 
the Municipal District of is comparative to being the Cultural Director of I being 
the center of the arts and culture of the United States. However, the Petitioner did not supplement the 
record with independent, objective evidence showing thatl !garnered an excellent reputation as 
the center of the arts and culture of Ecuador. The Petitioner did not present sufficient documentation 
to establish the standings or statures of I 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). It appears that the Petitioner has extensive experience and skills as an event 
producer, a media director, a manager of al I and the Secretary of Culture of the Municipal 
District of I As an event producer, the Petitioner has produced many concerts for various musicians 
or musical groups in Ecuador. As the Secretary of lmre of the Municipal District of the 
Petitioner organized various cultural events for However, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
5 
significance of his work as an event producer in the entertainment industry is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Moreover, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden 
to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23070825 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 4, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal as moot. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicate that the Petitioner has adjusted to 
permanent resident status through another proceeding . Because the Petitioner's status has been 
adjusted to permanent resident, further pursuit of the matter at hand is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20636111 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 5, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agriculture teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(1XA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility for 
the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enterthe United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
We first note that the record does not establish what the field of endeavor would be. On the Form 
1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner stated that the job title is "vocational 
agriculture teacher," and that the duties include "training next generation of graduates in [ m ]olecular 
[b ]iology and [b ]iotechnology as related to [ a ]griscience." In a letter submitted in support of the 
petition, the Petitioner stated that he "seeks employment in the area of [ m ]olecular [b ]iology and 
[b]iotechnology ... in accord with [his] research andfieldofrecognition." However, the record does 
not clarify whether the "vocational agriculture teacher's" field of endeavor would be working as an 
instructor of vocational skills for agricultural workers, working as an academic professor of science in 
a college or university, combining academic instruction with continued research in molecular biology 
and biotechnology in a college or university, or other possible fields of endeavor. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserted that 
he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (v)-(vi), and (viii)-(ix); however, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied none of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he 
satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (v)-(vi), and (viii)-(ix). After reviewing the 
record in its entirety, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria, for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation of the [ noncitizen] 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director acknowledged thatthe record establishes that the Petitioner is a member of the American 
Association for Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Association for Career and Technical 
Education (ACTE). However, the Director advised the Petitioner that the record did not establish that 
the AAAS or the ACTE require outstanding achievements of their members in a request for evidence 
(RFE) and requested the Petitioner to submit such evidence. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided additional information regarding the AAAS and the ACTE in response to the RFE; 
however, the Director noted that the inf 01mation did not establish that either the AAAS or the ACTE 
2 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Director concluded that the record did not establish that either the AAAS or the 
ACTE satisfied the plain language of the criterion of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that his memberships in the AAAS and the ACTE satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), without elaborating on how the Director may have erred in 
concluding the contrary. Instead, the Petitioner states that the AAAS is a "[p]]re eminent association 
providing policy leadership and peer engagement in [ s ]cience, technology, and public policy" and that 
the ACTE is a "[p]]reeminent association providing leadership in technological education at the 
secondary and post-secondary levels." 
Even if we consider the AAAS and the ACTE to be preeminent associations, the plain language of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) states that only membership in associations in the field for 
which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the disciplines or fields satisfy the criterion. The 
Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that either the AAAS or the 
ACTE require outstanding achievements of their members. Therefore, the Petitioner's memberships 
in the AAAS and the ACTE do not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen] 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record contains copies of articles co-authored by the Petitioner, which he asserts are under peer 
review. The Director acknowledged those articles; however, in the RFE the Director requested the 
Petitioner to provide evidence that the articles were published in professional publications, trade 
publications, or other major media, including circulation information specific to the media format in 
which it was published. The Petitioner's RFE response reiterated assertions already in the record, 
without providing the evidence the Director requested. Because the record did not contain evidence 
that the articles co-authored by the Petitioner were published in professional publications, trade 
publications, or other major media, the Director concluded that the record did not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references "[t]hree research manuscripts in review ... being revised for 
publication," that he was the co-inventor of a patent assigned tol I University, 
and that he submitted two additional patent applications. The Petitioner also states, "Ph.D. dissertation 
published." The Petitioner further references "[p]]resentations in scientific conferences and meetings." 
None of the information referenced by the Petitioner on appeal relates to evidence of his authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field published in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. Manuscripts "being revised for publication" have not been published as of the date of filing 
therefore, they cannot establish eligibility. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Patents filed with the U.S. 
Patent and Trademark Office are neither "scholarly articles in the field" nor "in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Similarly, simply stating 
that the Petitioner's Ph.D. dissertation has been published does not establish that it is a scholarly article 
in the field published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Likewise, the 
3 
Director noted that the Petitioner referenced that he "co-authored conference presentations" in 
response to the Director's RFE but thatthe Petitioner did not submit evidence to support that assertion. 
The Petitioner's reference to "[p ]resentations in scientific conferences and meetings" on appeal is not 
supported by corroborating evidence to establish the Petitioner satisfies the criterion relating to 
authorship of scholarly, published articles, nor does the Petitioner specifically address how the 
Director may have erred in reviewing any infonnation in the record. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act. In summation, because the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has written scholarly articles in the field published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, it does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the [ noncitizen] has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record contains the Petitioner's curriculum vitae and recommendation letters from a professor 
emeritus of biology at _.University and from a professor of biology at I I University. In the RFE, the Director infonned the Petitioner that neither the 
curriculum vitae nor the recommendation letters establish that the Petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and the Director 
requested the Petitioner to provide such evidence. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner referenced 
information already in the record including his curriculum vitae and the recommendation letters. The 
Petitioner also addressed funding he received and he asserted that he continued to teach during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Director concluded that the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation; therefore, it did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that his graduate and post-doctoral research work and his activities 
"[t]raining school students in [ v ]ocational [ a ]griculture and [b ]iotechnology atl I School 
District during 2017-2021" satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner does 
not elaborate on how the Director may have erred in concluding that the record did not establish that 
the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation. 
For a leading role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F App 'x, https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual. 
The Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that he led ___ I luniversi or a de artment thereof, while he was conducting graduate research; or that he 
led The University o r department thereof, while he worked as a post-doctoral 
research associate; or that he led the __ School District, or a department thereof, while he was 
"[t]rainingschool students in [v ]ocational [a]gricultureand[b ]iotechnology." Therefore, the record does 
not establish that the Petitioner performed in a leading role at any of the organizations he identified. 
4 
For a critical role, we consider whether the record establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of an organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. The Petitioner also does not elaborate how he contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of any of the referenced organization's activities, or to the outcome of a 
division or department of any of the referenced organizations. Therefore, the record does not establish 
that the Petitioner performed in a critical role at any of the organizations he identified. See id. 
Moreover, even if the record established that the Petitioner performed either a leading or critical role 
at any of the organizations he identified, which it does not, the record does not establish how any of 
the organizations have a distinguished reputation through documentation of their eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. See id. Because the record does not establish that the Petitioner performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, it 
does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner that the record did not establish that he commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, and 
the Director requested such evidence. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided a photocopy of 
his 2020 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, indicating that his gross annual income was 
$64,001.45. The Petitioner also submitted information regarding his income in the prior full tax year 
of 2019, and six paystubs from the beginning of 2021 in response to the RFE. The Petitioner also 
submitted a copy of an excerpt from an agreement between thel I Public School District #1 
and the I I Education Association for the period of 2019-2020, in relevant part setting the 
salary schedule for foll-time teachers of the district. The agreement states that "[t]he minimum salary 
for teachers employed by the District on a nine month basis is ... [$]55,450" for the highest level of 
qualification, "MS+ 3 2." The Director acknowledged the information regarding the Petitioner's 
income; however, the Director noted that "[t]he record contains no objective earnings data 
demonstrating that you have commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field," citing Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N.D. Ill. 1995). Because the record did not establish how the Petitioner's income relates 
to that of others in the field, the Director concluded that the record did not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The extent of the Petitioner's assertions on appeal regarding the criterion at 8 C.F. R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix) 
is: "[a]s per the Teachers Union contract for the School District, I drew the highest salaries allowed 
in the contract based on educational qualification and experience." 
The Petitioner's reliance on the above-referenced agreement between the I I Public School 
District# 1 and thel !Education Association for the period of2019-2020 is misplaced. First, 
as the Director explained, the record does not contain evidence of the actual salaries earned by others 
in the field, to which the Petitioner's salary may be compared. Specifically, the recorddoesnotcontain 
evidence of what other "vocational agriculture teachers" with "MS+32" qualifications-or any other 
level of qualification-actually earn, to compare to the Petitioner's income in order to detennine 
5 
whether he commands a high salary or significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to 
others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Second, the record does not contain a copy of the 
agreement for the period of 2020-2021, to address the Petitioner's income earned in the autumn and 
winterof2020 as reflected in his annual Form W-2 for that year. Third, the Petitionermischaracterizes 
the import of the agreement. The copy of the agreement-in its excerpted form-in the record 
indicates that the Petitioner's income during 202 0 was greater than "[ t]he minimum salary for teachers 
employed by the District" for the period of 2019-2020, notthathe "drew the highest salaries allowed." 
On the contrary, the copy of the agreement-in its excerpted form-does not appear to limit what "the 
highest salaries allowed" may be. 
We note that, after the Petitioner filed the appeal, he submitted a copy of an employment offer letter 
to him from University dated December 2022. The offer letter indicates that his position title 
would be "Scientist III," his employment would begin in February 2023, and his annual salary would 
be $68,000. However, the offer letter does not elaborate on the job duties of a "Scientist III" and the 
record does not establish how a salary of $68,000 is a high salary or significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the "Scientist III" field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix). 
Because the record does not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (viii), and (ix), and 
because the Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not supp01i the conclusion, that the record 
satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii), or (x), we need not determine whether the 
record satisfies the criteria at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or(v) because, even if it did, it would not satisfy 
at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v). In summation, the record does not satisfy a least three of 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25 ( 197 6) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which 
is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20499623 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a business leader with experience in strategic management, 
business development, and entrepreneurship. He holds a bachelor's degree in civil engineering and a 
master of business administration from Brazilian universities and is a 2014 graduate of the 
Owner/President Management program atl I School. The record reflects that he served 
as the president of Brazilian company! I from 2003 until March 2016, when he sold the 
company tol , a U.S.-based multinational corporation that is traded on the NASDAQ stock 
exchange. He served as country manager and managing director for I in Brazil following the 
acquisition of I I and founded! in December 2016, 
where he has since served as CEO. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed he could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that he met 
any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the referenced criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address all of the Petitioner's claims 
or evidence. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criteria claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that he is a member in an association in his field 
that requires outstanding achievements of its members, with membership eligibility judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner stated that he could meet this 
criterion based on his membership in the I I School Alumni of Brazil I land thel I With respect to the Petitioner's membership in __ 
the Director's decision references the evidence he submitted in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) but does not address the initial evidence provided in support of this criterion. Further, the 
decision does not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that his membership in _______ 
satisfies this criterion and did not address the evidence submitted in support of that claim. As the 
matter will be remanded, the Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of 
this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how the evidence supports 
his eligibility. 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted 
several articles from Brazilian publications that discuss him and his work in his field. The Director's 
decision briefly references only two of these articles and the analysis consists of a conclusory 
statement that the "articles are not big major trade publications or other major media." At the same 
time the Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence regarding the circulation 
of the publications. However, the record indicates the Petitioner's submission of documentation in 
support of his claim that one or more of the submitted articles was published in a major trade 
publication or other major media. Therefore, the decision reflects an incomplete review of the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. On remand, the Director should review the record to 
determine whether the Petitioner met this criterion at the time of filing. 
The Petitioner claims that he can meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires 
evidence of his participation as the judge of the work of others in the same or allied field, based on his 
activities with [ I and as an invited judge for a Global Student Entrepreneurs Award 
competition held by Entrepreneurs Organization (EO) in Brazil. In concluding that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that he can satisfy this criterion, the Director referenced a letter from the founding 
member ofEO that was submitted in response to the RFE but did not otherwise address the Petitioner's 
claims or evidence related to this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the Director 
3 
made a conclusory determination without reviewing most of the submitted evidence, particularly his 
activities withl I which were not acknowledged in the decision. On remand, the Director 
should review the record, including the appeal, and issue a new determination with respect to this 
criterion based on the totality of the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not sufficiently address most of the evidence he submitted and summarily concludes that 
his original contributions, though "of national importance," have not substantially impacted the 
business field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern based on the 
Director's decision what specific evidence was considered in reaching this determination. As the 
decision only vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically 
identifying any documents, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence 
submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
Finally, the Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy the "leadin or critical roles" 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his long tenure as resident of and 
based on his role as managing director and country manager for The decision, 
however, does not specifically acknowledge this claim and only briefly lists some of the evidence 
submitted in response to the RFE, without any reference to the initial evidence or the Petitioner's 
primary claim. In fact, the only evidence specifically addressed in the analysis is a letter from a client 
of the Petitioner's current employer that was not submitted in support of this criterion. The Director 
also determined that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that "the organization or establishment has 
a distinguished reputation," but it is unclear what "organization" is referenced; the Petitioner did 
submit evidence intended to establish that bothl I andl I enjoy a distinguished 
reputation in the industry, and the Director did not address why this evidence was not sufficient to 
meet the Petitioner's burden. We therefore remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not specifically contested the Director's determination with respect to 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the individual has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the same field. 
Nevertheless, as the matter is being remanded for the reasons set forth above, the Director should 
review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. As is the case with the other criteria, the 
denial only briefly addresses evidence submitted in response to the RFE and does not reflect that the 
totality of the submitted evidence was analyzed in reaching the adverse conclusion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If after review the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22654821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Beneficiary 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a marketing executive who has received recognition for his achievements in the 
development of numerous advertising campaigns for notable clients during his employment with 
several agencies. The Beneficiary's most recent work with the Petitioner resulted in his appointment 
as chief executive officer, and the Petitioner intends for the Beneficiary to continue his employment 
in that position. 
Although the Petitioner initially presented evidence to establish that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award-as well as evidence satisfying alternate criteria-the Director did 
not acknowledge that evidence as such; the Director denied the petition, determining only that the 
record did not contain evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that the 
Beneficiary received a major, internationally recognized award, as well as evidence that he meets five 
criteria addressed in the Director's final decision. As more fully discussed below, we conclude that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Also discussed below, based 
on review of the Director's decision as it relates to the evidence submitted to demonstrate several other 
evidentiary criteria, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
We conclude that the Director's decision did not provide a sufficient analysis of the evidence ofrecord 
with regard to several criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). An officer must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow 
us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of 
M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Because the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition, on remand, the 
Director should fully review the evidence of record relating to the Beneficiary's claim of a qualifying 
one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an achievement, the Director should 
fully review the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix). 
We also find that the Director erroneously assessed the evidence of record based on a misinterpretation 
of the field of extraordinary ability for which the petition requests consideration. The decision stated, 
"It appears that the awards are not in the beneficiary's field because the petitioner has indicated that 
the beneficiary's field is that of a chief executive. However, the awards submitted are for advertising 
campaigns and being an influencer." The Director's decision does not include an explanation of his 
interpretation of the chief executive officer position as a field unto itself. The present petition requests 
consideration of the Beneficiary's extraordinary business ability as a marketing executive currently 
2 
serving as the chief executive officer for an advertising agency; the petition proposes continued 
employment for the Beneficiary in that position, and the evidence demonstrates that he has held 
various positions performing crucial roles in the development of campaigns for the Petitioner's agency 
and for several international agencies. On remand, the Director should evaluate the Beneficiary as a 
chief executive officer in the field of marketing. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The record includes evidence showing 
that the Beneficiary's advertising campaign teams received two Cannes Lions Awards when he served 
as Account Supervisor atl I and Vice President of Planning at I 
Although the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's Cannes Lions constitute major, internationally 
recognized awards, the Director's decision assessed these awards and other award documentation in 
terms of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), concluding, 'There is no objective evidence to 
ascertain whether the awards or prizes are nationally recognized or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. ... " However, the record contains information from several 
reputable news sources regarding the nature of the awards and the Cannes Lions International Festival 
of Creativity itself-the annual event at which awards are issued to entrants from multiple countries. 
A USA Today article describes the event as "the Academy Awards for advertising," and an article from 
CBS News states, "The Cannes Lions Awards are, to the ad industry, their Oscars. It's where the good 
and the great gather to celebrate their best and brightest, every year." The record includes media 
reports discussing award winners for internationally recognized brands and rules for judging, as well 
as information from the Cannes Lions organization concerning entrant profiles and juror credentials. 
The Director's decision does not analyze whether the Cannes Lions Awards qualify as major, 
internationally recognized awards that demonstrate international recognition of the Beneficiary's 
achievements in the field of marketing. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence 
submitted in support of the Beneficiary's claim of a qualifying one-time achievement to determine if 
it meets the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an achievement, the Director should 
fully review the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix) as further 
detailed below. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
In addition to evidence to establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate at least three of the alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to seven criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor, 
• (ii) Membership in associations in the field, 
• (iii) Published material about the individual, 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field, 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance, 
3 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
• (viii) Performance of leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations, and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the record did not contain evidence sufficient to satisfy any of the above­
listed criteria necessary for qualification as an individual of extraordinary ability in a specific field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the record includes evidence to establish eligibility for five of 
the alternate criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's Effie Awards, WARC Award, Global/4A's Jay 
Chiat Award, and CLIO Award, and the record includes information from the awards organizations 
and from objective media sources concerning previous winners and judging criteria. As described 
above, the Director concluded that these awards were not granted to the Beneficiary in the field for 
which he currently seeks classification; the Director misinterpreted the Beneficiary's field as that of 
chief executive officer, specifically, yet the awards were given for his achievements in the field of 
marketing. The Director's decision does not properly analyze the awards as they relate to the field of 
marketing. 
The Director also determined that, "while these prizes or awards reflect institutional recognition for 
excellence, they do not reflect national or international recognition for excellence in the field." The 
Director did not provide an analysis for his conclusion concerning the scope of recognition conferred 
by these awards. 
The Director also concluded, "The plain language of this criterion requires the petitioner to document 
the beneficiary's own receipt of the award .... [T]he awards appear to have been conferred to the 
specific advertising campaigns or to the beneficiary's employer. Awards presented to a third party or 
organization are not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion because the beneficiary did 
not actually receive the award." USCIS policy generally emphasizes consideration of an individual 
beneficiary's receipt of an award, as opposed to the receipt of an award by the individual's employer.1 
In this case, however, the awards were conferred to the Beneficiary as one member of a small team 
receiving recognition for its accomplishments; the evidence from the award organizations and from 
media sources identifies the Beneficiary by name as winning numerous awards for his work in leading 
roles on several teams. The Director did not provide an explanation for his conclusion that the 
Beneficiary did not receive each award. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence 
related to the Beneficiary's Effie Awards, WARC Award, Global/4A's Jay Chiat Award, and CLIO 
Award to determine ifit meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
4 
We note that the Director acknowledged that thel I Award was conferred solely to the 
Beneficiary. However, citing Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971), he points 
out that the Beneficiary received the award during a ceremony that took place from June 29, 2021, to 
July 1, 2021-after the June 16, 2021, filing date of the petition-concluding that receipt of the 
I IA ward does not demonstrate the Beneficiary's eligibility at the time of filing. The Petitioner 
has not submitted sufficient evidence indicating that the Beneficiary received thel Award 
before the filing date of the petition. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field/or which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or field. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We first note that several articles submitted by the Petitioner pertain to the Beneficiary's ___ 
award. This material cannot be evaluated as relevant and probative evidence because it was generated 
after the filing date of the petition. 2 
As to the remaining articles, the Director's decision states, 'The criterion was not met because the 
material submitted does not contain the title, date, author of the material or evidence that the published 
material qualifies as professional or major trade publications or other major media." Review of the 
record shows that some of the articles submitted do include these identifiers. Further, although the 
Director identified the articles as incomplete in a list of evidence submitted, the decision does not 
provide an analysis of the content presented; the Director concluded that the "material only cites, 
quotes, or references the beneficiary," and that there "is no discussion of the beneficiary or the 
beneficiary's work." The record contains several articles for which the Beneficiary was interviewed, 
as well as articles discussing advertisements that, as corroborated by letters of endorsement from his 
employers and colleagues, the Beneficiary was instrumental in creating. Articles also discuss! I I I a marketing tool utilizing Google technology for which the Beneficiary is lauded in letters of 
endorsement for developing. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. at 49. 
5 
As evidence of the Beneficiary's participation as a judge of others' work in the field of marketing, the 
Petitioner submitted letters from representatives from the Effie A wards, from the SME A wards, and 
from thel I School; the letters detail the Beneficiary's repeated participation as a juror, 
including as president. The Director's decision concluded that the Beneficiary served as a judge in 
the field of advertising and, again, applied an erroneous interpretation of the Beneficiary's field in 
analyzing this criterion; "While the evidence does establish that the beneficiary acted in the role of a 
judge in the field of advertising, the plain language of this criterion requires that the beneficiary judge 
the work of others in his field .... The petitioner has indicated on the Form I-140 that the beneficiary's 
field and intended employment is that of a Chief Executive Officer." On remand, the Director should 
fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it meets the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) in the Beneficiary's field of marketing. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted articles authored by the Beneficiary. However, the decision provided a 
conclusory statement indicating the criteria was not met without analysis of the evidence submitted. 
On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to 
determine ifit meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The decision acknowledged the numerous letters of endorsement from the Beneficiary's previous 
employers and colleagues and provided the following analysis: 
The letters do not show that the beneficiary was in a position of leadership for the 
organization or establishment or explain how the accomplishments went beyond a 
department or project of the organization or establishment and impacted the 
organization or establishment as a whole. 
Any organization or establishment that retains the services of an individual requires 
someone competent to provide those services. In the case of a leading role, the 
petitioner must demonstrate how the beneficiary's role fits within the overall hierarchy 
of the organization or establishment. In the case of a critical role, the beneficiary must 
have contributed to the success of the establishment or organization beyond merely 
providing necessary services. 
6 
As such, the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "did not properly discuss, address, or analyze the 
evidence presented [or] explain in any fashion whatsoever why the evidence on record was allegedly 
insufficient to meet the required burden of proof" The letters of endorsement do, in fact, attest to the 
Beneficiary's leading and critical roles while working with several organizations; they detail his 
contributions to the development of successful ad campaigns and the awards those campaigns 
garnered, and they commend the Beneficiary's formation of a new marketing tool in collaboration I I For example, a letter from I I education lead for Latin America states ( quoted as 
written), 
Google is focused on generating value I for its clients through new technological 
capabilities, especially through Cloud Platform. This platform, though 
technologically very advanced, is still finding its way into the marketing world, and I I work with I I is doing an outstanding job in getting 
these two concepts together, to the great benefit of both and 
A letter from the marketing and innovation director of states ( quoted as written), 
One of I most extraordinar achievements is the ideation and implementation 
of .. ... This model was a key selection factor when 
we decided to work with _ We have gained business against our competitors 
and some of our recent work is now considered globally best in class marketing. 
The chief strategy officer at states of the Beneficiary ( quoted as written), 
He was able to design a partnership with I I to add Big Data and analytical 
capabilities to I I that were missing before. This new breakthrough 
innovation ... has become a major commercial success that helped the company to win 
1m ortant new accounts and projects likel I Toyota, [ and] Coca-Cola .... One of 
m lihmn i hfr 
Of a campaign led by the Beneficiary for a low-performing client prepared to leavd __ a strategy 
consultant states, 
[It] was first launched in Canada in 2016. The strategy was so strong and 
resonant ... that multiple creative executions were further developed, keeping the 
campaign running for over 3 years. It was later adopted in Argentina and Australia. 
[The campaign] contributed to I I achieving its highest sales volume and 
market share results since the brand launched and outpaced category growth 3: 1. 
A letter from the chief executive officer at attests to the Beneficiary's 
contributions to the firm's recognition in the advertising field by Cannes, Adweek, and Fast Company. 
7 
In contrast to the analysis provided in the Director's decision, the evidence shows that the Beneficiary 
made a significant impact on organizations having distinguished reputations in the realms of 
advertising and technology. We conclude that the Petitioner has submitted sufficient evidence that 
meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director found that the information from various websites submitted as evidence of the 
Beneficiary's high salary relative to other comparable positions in his field was not sufficient to 
establish eligibility. Specifically, the decision stated that the positions of advertising executives and 
senior account executives for which salary information was submitted were not comparable to those 
of chief executive officers. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) as it 
pertains to the Beneficiary's expertise in the field of marketing. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address whether the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an 
achievement, the Director should fully review the alternative evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix). If the Director determines that the Petitioner has provided 
sufficient evidence of a one-time achievement or at least three of the types of alternative evidence 
listed in the regulations, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23473811 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and filmmaker, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish he met the initial evidence requirements of this 
classification through either evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized 
award) or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We agreed with the 
Director and dismissed his appeal, which is now before us on a motion to reopen. The Petitioner bears 
the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the 
Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). 
If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where 
a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). According to the Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form 1-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion), any new facts and documentary evidence must demonstrate eligibility for the 
required immigration benefit at the time the application or petition was filed. A motion to reopen that 
does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean those that are relevant to the issues raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes within the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In support of those claims, he either: (1) offers 
new eligibility claims that were presented to the Director but that were not advanced in his appeal 
filing; (2) presents new claims that he never previously asserted before the Director or on appeal; or 
(3) submits evidence that came into being after the petition filing date. Each of these actions are 
prohibited within the current proceedings, as we explain below. 
Our review of the record reveals the Petitioner collectively asserted his claims before the Director, but 
he failed to offer all of those same claims in his appeal. When he failed to assert any previous claims 
within his appeal, he abandoned or waived those claims. 1 See Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496, 
496 n.1 (BIA 2018) ( concluding that an issue is deemed waived when it is not challenged). This means 
we will not factor those abandoned claims into this or any future motion decision based on this 
particular petition. He is, however, eligible to reintroduce these claims in any future petition filing 
(i.e., a new Form I-140). 
Also, as it relates to a motion to reopen, the requirement for "new facts" pertains to new information 
associated with the eligibility claims a filing party presented to us in their most recent filing; in this case, 
in the Petitioner's appeal brief A motion to reopen should not act as a vehicle-as a Trojan horse of 
sorts-to introduce new eligibility claims for the first time. These two concepts (new facts versus new 
eligibility claims) are distinct and are not interchangeable. New eligibility assertions advanced for the 
first time to an administrative appellate body are not properly before us. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 
408,410 n.4 (BIA 2021) (refusing to consider an appellant's humanitarian claims that were presented for 
the first time on appeal). 
We offer two examples. First, the Petitioner claimed on appeal that he was a member of the jury of 
______________ _,during the tenth edition of the Festival, and this should serve as 
one basis for satisfying the judging the work of others criterion. The Petitioner may present new facts 
that are supported by evidence relating to that judging role, but he may not now introduce new instances 
in which he may have judged the work of others that he did not present in his appeal brief, and that was 
not a part of our decision on that appeal. To illustrate, on motion the Petitioner provides claims and 
evidence that he was a member of the final round jury for the category at thel I 
I IFilm Festival. Because this is the first time he asserts this claim, it would not be appropriate 
1 For instance, in his filing before the Director under the contributions criterion, the Petitioner claimed his novel I I was commonly regarded as a major milestone of contemporary Chinese Literature. However, he did not 
advance this same claim within his appeal, and we consider it abandoned here. 
2 
for us to factor this material into our decision within these proceedings. The Petitioner, however, is free 
to submit this material in any new petition filing. 
Our second example relates to the Petitioner's claims on motion that his writing was featured in the book, I I The Petitioner did not assert this claim in his appeal, 
nor did he address it before the Director. Therefore, even though he raises it in this motion to reopen, we 
will not factor it into these proceedings. 
Finally, the Petitioner presents evidence on motion to support his new facts, but that material postdates 
the etition filin date (March 30, 2020 . For instance, a I 2022 article titled,I I 
was created after he filed the petition. 
A request for an immigration benefit "must establish that he or she is eligible for the requested benefit at 
the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to be through adjudication." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l); Ahmed v. Mukasey, 519 F.3d 579, 582 (6th Cir. 2008); Karakenyan v. US. Citizenship 
& Immigr., 468 F. Supp. 3d 50, 52 (D.D.C. 2020). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may not approve a visa petition if the Petitioner 
was not qualified at the priority date but attempts to become eligible at a subsequent time. See Matter 
of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Any additional evidence submitted in 
connection with a benefit request at a later date must also establish "eligibility at the time the benefit 
request was filed." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l2). "Under this rule, USCIS will deny [an immigration benefit] 
if the [ filing party] becomes eligible only after the [benefit] was filed." Tingzi Wang v. United States 
Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 375 F. Supp. 3d 22, 27 (D.D.C. 2019); Doe v. United States Citizenship 
& Immigr. Servs., 410 F. Supp. 3d 86, 100 (D.D.C. 2019). 
Here, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. Specifically, he has not 
offered new facts-associated with his previous eligibility claims-that are also supported by 
evidence demonstrating he satisfied either the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), or the 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) as of the date he filed the petition. The result of 
this shortcoming is that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should reopen the proceedings. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23671567 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in technical sciences in 2012 and a specialization diploma in oilfield 
chemistry in 2019. At the time of filing the instant petition, the Petitioner was employed in the oil 
industry, focusing on the development, testing, and implementation of oil production technologies 
using oilfield chemicals. He indicates that he intends to continue pursuing research in these areas in 
the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3),he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two additional criteria, 
original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and high remuneration for 
services at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).1 Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which relates to receipt oflessernationally or internationally recognized awards, 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in associations, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), regarding 
published material. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived. See, e.g., MatterofM-A-S-, 24 T&NDec. 762, 767n.2 
(BIA2009); see also See Sepulveda v. US. Att 'y Gen.,401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristovv. Roark,No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meetthis criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his contributions are not only original 
but also "of major significance in the field." For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
have been widely implemented throughout the field,have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner claimed that he has 
made several original contributions of major significance in his field, as evidenced by the fact that he 
has published several articles and is listed as an inventor on seven patents granted to his former 
employer, for inventions including a "method ofl I in a production w well," " !compound," "repair method," and "device for I 
repair or I I insulation." 
We note that a patent recognizes the originality of an idea, but it would not demonstrate that he made 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the significance of the innovation must be 
determined on a case-by-case basis and considered in light of other evidence in the record. The 
and ___________________________ 
Within his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
ex lained that as art of the scientific research for his 2011 doctoral dissertation titled 
he developed "technologies aimed at efficient 
operation of the __ of oil wells." He stated that "two technologies" were "successfully tested 
and implemented" at the production companies of , I and I I resulting in an increase in oil production as shown in the submitted charts and two of the 
above-referenced patented technologies. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the charts show that his technologies for I I in 
andl !resulted in additional oil production and cost savings. While 
the Petitioner's research appears to have been novel, the Petitioner did not establish, for example, that 
the technologies he developed and successfully tested in and I 
oil production companies have widely impacted the field, so as to demonstrate original contributions 
of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
In addition, although the Petitioner provided evidence indicatingthe originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, as discussed below, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance or support his 
claim that his original contributions have already impacted the field. Although they reflectthe novelty 
of the projects on which he worked, they do not show how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance, and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this 
criterion. For instance, a letter from a a petroleum engineer, provides that as part 
of his work as an independent expert related to maintaining the production volumes of I oil fields 
he met with the Petitioner, who headed the department of complications control at thel I 
research center. He states that the Petitioner implemented projects and tested effective technologies 
3 
for protecting oil field equipment from corrosion, scaling, and wax in I I fields. He provides that 
the Petitioner published "several dozen" scientific articles and made several presentations at scientific 
conferences. I la former petroleum engineer with "BP," met the Petitioner at a BP­
hosted scientific conference where they discussed challenges to the I I oil field, such as 
corrosion and the formation of inorganic and organic scales. He describes the Petitioner as "a very 
talented scientist and technologist" who "holds several patents for inventions" and whose areas of 
scientific interest are "very relevant to tackling the challenges related to oil and gas production and 
enhanced oil production." 
Further, the Petitioner submitted a letter from _____ who indicates he worked with the 
Petitioner in 2014 in "selecting the effective repair and isolation technologies" forl I oil wells. 
He summarizes the findings of the Petitioner's doctoral research on the development of new 
technology designed to isolate numerous failures of the production string, and he provides that "[t]he 
novelty of his research is confirmed by patents of the Russian Federation." These three letters are not 
sufficiently detailed to explain how the Petitioner's research in the area of in in 
production strings and I I is considered to be an original contribution of major 
significance, as claimed. Overall, the letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the 
novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of 
contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance in the Petitioner's field. The 
authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely 
implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a 
demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the Petitioner's patents, excerpts of his published 
findings, and reference letters from his colleagues, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive 
in his field, but it does not demonstrate the extent to which his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." In 2010, the 
Kazarian court reaffirmed its holding that we did not abuse our discretion in our adverse finding 
relating to this criterion because the contributions in question were not major. 596 F.3d at 1122. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.P.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that his salary "is 2.5 times higher than the average monthly salary of w01kers 
in professional, scientific and technical activities in the Russian Federation" and "five times higher 
than the average monthly salary in the region of [ the Petitioner's] work -the I I I I" In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The Petitioner's 
initial submission provided his 2017, 2018, and 2019, income tax documentation reflecting that his 
earnings for those years averaged approximately 168,230 rubles per month. Within the Petitioner's 
response to the Director's RFE, he submitted his 2020 income tax documentation reflecting his 
4 
earnings through August 2020 averaged approximately 241,698 rubles per month. 2 In addition, he 
provided 2020 average monthly wages for "Professional, scientific and technical activities (section 
M)" from the Federal Service of State Statistics FSSS showing the average monthly wage in Russia 
of 80,077 rubles and in the _______ of 56,269 rubles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits four on-line articles to demonstrate that his salary was high relative 
to others in the field. However, we note that the articles appear to be English translations but are not 
accompanied by a copy of the original untranslated articles corresponding to these materials.3 
Moreover, we will not consider new eligibility claims or evidence in our adjudication of this appeal 
See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put 
on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record 
before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal of any purpose" and that "we 
will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We have therefore limited our review to the materials in 
the record at the time of the Director's decision. 
Although the Petitioner likens his salary to the average wages in the general field of prof essionaL 
scientific, and technical activities, the Petitioner did not show that he commands a high salary "in 
relation to others in the field," such as other petroleum scientists in Russia. See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers);Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Furthern10re, the 
salary information from FSSS reflects the average wages rather than the high salaries of petroleum 
scientists in Russia. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
2 Because this criterion requires evidence that the Petitioner"has commanded" a high salary in the past, and because the 
Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing (September 2020) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l ), we 
will evaluate evidence that pre-dates the filing of the petition. 
3 Regarding the submission of foreign language documents, the regulation provides that the Petitioner shall submit such 
documents accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3 ). It does not indicate that 
English language translations maybe provided in lieu of foreign language documents. 
5 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23792156 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), requiring documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). We summarily 
dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider, which we dismissed because it was filed untimely. Subsequently, the Petitioner filed 
a second appeal, and we rejected that as improperly filed. 
He then filed four subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also dismissed . 
The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 
291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). According to the Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form 1-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion), any new facts and documentary evidence must demonstrate eligibility for the 
required immigration benefit at the time the application or petition was filed. A motion to reopen that 
does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. Multiple motion 
filings serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in 
immigration proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to 
remain in the United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) 
(citing INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). 
USCIS has the latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely 
can create endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government 
resources attending to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing 
party bears a "heavy burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with 
each subsequent motion filing. Id. 
The issues here are whether the Petitioner: (1) has submitted new facts, supported by documentary 
evidence, to warrant reopening, and (2) has established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in dismissing his fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. And the matters the 
Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues discussed within our most 
recent decision; the decision on their fifth motion. General support that a motion must first overcome 
the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly 
discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one has to file a motion after the most 
recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses numerous decisions throughout this process, but he 
does not directly take on our most recent dismissal of his motions in our May 6, 2022 decision. He 
discusses our 2018 summary dismissal partly dismissed for a lack of a follow-on brief, claims he 
mailed that brief to us in a timely manner, and discusses delays in filing a subsequent motion and any 
reasonable reasons for that delay. He also references our July 2020 decision on his third motion and 
turns his other arguments to the merits of the Director's initial decision from August 2018. The 
Petitioner's opportunity to make the arguments relating to these past decisions was in the filing that 
immediately followed each of those decisions. We reiterate that the Petitioner must first address the 
contents of our most recent decision from May 2022, but he does not adequately do so here. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our May 
2022 dismissal. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
2 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should either reopen the proceedings, nor has he 
established we should reconsider our May 6, 2022 decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24187550 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that 
decision, as well as three subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider. The matter is now 
before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts to be proved and be supported by affidavits or other evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, 
and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of 
the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the benefit sought. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) . Accordingly, we 
examine any new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissing the Petitioner's third 
motion to reopen, and whether we erred in determining that the Petitioner did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing the third motion to reconsider. 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314,323, (1992) (citingINSv. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief The Petitioner provides a brief description of her work 
experience and some highlights of her achievements that have been previously outlined in the record. 
Since the current motion to reopen does not include new facts or new evidence, the motion does not meet 
the requirement of a motion to reopen and must be dismissed. 
Regarding the motion to reconsider, we stress again that in order to have established merit for 
reconsideration of our latest decision the petitioner must both state the reasons why the petitioner 
believes the most recent decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy; and 
specifically cite laws, regulations, precedent decisions, and/or binding policies that the petitioner 
believed we misapplied in our prior decision. 
In this case, the prior decision at issue is our decision dated May 26, 2022, whereby we dismissed the 
motion to reconsider since the brief submitted with the third motion was almost identical to the brief 
submitted with the second motion. The current motion brief states that we abused our discretion by 
applying the incorrect legal standard but did not provide any evidence to support this claim. To prevail 
in a motion to reconsider, the petitioner cannot merely disagree with our conclusions, but rather it 
must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy in our immediate prior decision. See 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process 
by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally 
alleging error in the prior decision.) 
Accordingly, although we acknowledge that the Petitioner submits a brief, we determine that the 
Petitioner does not directly address the conclusions we reached in our immediate prior decision or 
provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. Likewise, the brief in support of the current 
motion also lacks any cogent argument as to how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing 
the prior motion to reconsider. 
In light of the above, we conclude that this motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider and must therefore be dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In this matter, the Petitioner has not overcome our prior decision or shown proper cause to reopen or 
reconsider this matter. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not 
met that burden. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23069520 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur and business development executive , seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification through evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material about him at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets five additional 
evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he was among I I 
professionals" who received a " Award" (2021) from " " 3 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
2 Id. 
3 The Petitioner presented a 22021 article, entitled "Publisher honors I I immigrants in the 
community" posted at www. .com. This articles states: 
2 
Promotional material offered by the Petitioner for this award indicates that "[t]he creation of the I I award has several meanings, but the key point is to highlight stories with ethical, moral 
and social values from people who were hitherto little known and who now have the chance to make 
public in the globalized publishing universe, in which we specialize." 
While the Petitioner provided promotional information about his award from and 
coverage in several newspapers serving the I I community in the United States4, this 
documentation does not indicate the national or international significance of his "
A ward" award in the field of endeavor. 5 The record does not include evidence demonstrating that the 
Petitioner's award was recognized by the field in general rather than mainly limited to the readership 
of a fewl I newspapers published in the United States. Nor does the evidence show that the 
limited media coverage relating to the Petitioner's award rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. Without further evidence regarding its national or international significance in his field, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his " Award" award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established he meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted his "membership diploma" from the I Institute of 
Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Sustainable Development -I He also presented 
information describing the organization's goals, mission, and target membership. This documentation 
does not indicate that the selection process for I I requires outstanding achievements or 
that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
With the appeal, the Petitioner submits a declaration from the I I Institute of Corporate 
Governance stating that he has been a member sincd 12022, but this membership post-dates the 
filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
Having reviewed the evidence submitted under this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
an an American company founded in 2017 by hiving in the United States, to represent, promote, 
edit and distribute books by I writers in the United States. The objective of the award is to highlight the biography 
of these immigrants." 
4 For example, the Petitioner submitted articles in ,I Land I I 
The record also includes an article in (a news portal serving the city ofl I in southeast but 
this article received only "11 views" according to the webpage presented by the Petitioner. 
5 Consideration for this award appears limited to I ]men working in the United States. Cf., Strategati, LLC v 
Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award eliminated men from 
consideration and thus did not "measure the petitioner's standing or selection from the whole field.") 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has judged the work of other professionals in the field while 
conducting his business affairs." He argues that "[w]hile managing strategies, functions, processes, 
activities, staff, and strategic alliances, [his] judgments about the work of others have produced 
substantial accomplishments for his business ventures." The Petitioner further asserts that he "must 
judge the works of others in order to coherently and effectively manage the myriad facets of the large­
scale real estate development projects." 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner does not point to specific evidence in the record demonstrating that 
he meets this criterion. To fulfill this criterion, the evidence must show that an individual "actually 
participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization."6 Here, 
the Petitioner has not offered evidence to demonstrate that he has participated, either individually or 
on a panel, as a judge of the work of others. The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a 
judging capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Nor has the Petitioner shown that performing managerial responsibilities as part of 
his business affairs constitutes his participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the field. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they served in a leading or critical role for 
an organization or establishment, and that the organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. 7 The Director determined that the Petitioner had performed in a leading role for both I I andl I but that his evidence was 
insufficient to demonstrate that either company has a distinguished reputation. 8 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that both "companies enjoy a distinguished reputation within their 
field." He points to a 2017 7 ress release he osted throu h AB Newswire a aid ress release 
distribution service) entitled _____ ." In addition, the Petitioner provided a 2020 article in ( a 
newspaper serving the I I community in the United States) entitled ' [the 
Petitioner]." The record also includes articles entitled' entitled "---------,-------the Petitioner" Forbes.com _____ [the Petitioner] 
"(T2conline.com), "[The Petitioner ________________ 
' (NYundressed. com), "[The Petitioner] 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
7 "Merriam-Webster's online dictionar.Y. defines distin uished as marked b eminence distinction or excellence." Id. 
8 The record includes letters of suppo 
and discussing the Petitioner's role fo and _____ 
but these individuals do not elaborate on the reputation of the Petitioner's two companies or identify specific 
examples of evidence indicating that they have garnered a distinguished reputation. 
4 
" (Im actwealth.com , "The Petitioner 
FSHNma azine.com), and ______________________ 
(T2conline.com)." While these articles discuss the Petitioner and his 
property, they do not mentio_,_ _____________ and ______ 
Accordingly, the aforementioned articles do not demonstrate that either company has a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also submitted an article entitled " I I " !Business Journal). This articles states that I 
currently owns the three land parcels that I I would be built on, according to county records. 
The is tied to al -based holding company that acquired the three properties .... " This 
limited information, however, is insufficient to show that[ I Art Services, enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. 
With the appeal, the Petitioner resents a 
the Petitioner 2022 PRNewswire ress release entitled' 
' He also provides 2022 article in Business Journal entitled __________ o p___ a ___ 2____ in Business Jo
" These two '------------------------------------' articles post-date the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established he meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, membership, 
judging, or leading or critical role. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for an additional criterion 
on appeal, relating to original contributions of major significance in the field at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a 
determination on the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24533939 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bioinformatics research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an experienced research scientist in the field ofbioinformatics. 
She has a bachelor's degree in electrical and computer engineering from I I University of 
Science and Technology and completed her graduate studies at University in China, where she 
received her Ph.D. in control science and engineering in 2006. The Petitioner indicates that she has 
held post-doctoral research positions in bioinformatics at Thel I Universit of 
University of Technology of ______ _.University, and University At the 
time of filing, she was employed as a bioinformatics analyst at the University of _ College of I I The Petitioner states that she intends to continue her research work in the bioinformatics 
field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in her field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that she has published scholarly articles in 
"Cell, Stem Cell, Nature Communications and Advanced Science" and therefore met the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Director also determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) based on evidence that she peer-reviewed 
manuscripts submitted for publication in several scientific journals. However, the Director concluded 
2 
that the evidence did not establish that she had made original contributions of major significance in 
her field and denied the petition without reaching a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision contains fundamental errors of fact which 
suggest that the denial was not based on a review of all evidence she submitted in support of her 
petition and may in fact have involved review of an unrelated petition. Specifically, she notes that 
although the Director determined that she met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) based on her 
authorship of scholarly articles, the decision indicates that she published in Cell, Stem Cell, and 
Advanced Science. She emphasizes that she neither claimed nor submitted evidence that she published 
in these journals. The Petitioner also notes that the Director's discussion of the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) contains a reference to "additional letters" submitted in response to 
a request for evidence (RFE) but asserts that she did not provide this evidence in response to an RFE. 
Finally, the Petitioner emphasizes that the decision primarily refers to her by "he/him/his" pronouns, 
but the petition and supporting evidence clearly indicate that female pronouns are appropriate. 
After reviewing the record in its totality, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director's decision contains factual errors, including references to evidence that was not submitted in 
support of this petition. In addition, as discussed further below, the Director's discussion of the 
original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) is conclusory and does not specifically 
address the Petitioner's claims or the evidence submitted in support of the criterion. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision contains 
factual errors and does not provide a sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial with respect to 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we will withdraw that decision and remand for further review 
and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion below. 
Despite the referenced factual errors, the record supports a determination that the Petitioner has 
published scholarly articles in scientific journals such as Nature Communications and the Journal of 
the National Academy of Sciences, and that she has judged the work of others in her field by peer 
reviewing manuscripts submitted to journals for publication. Therefore, the record demonstrates that 
she satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not address the evidence she submitted with any specificity and instead summarily 
concluded that the evidence was insufficient. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult 
to discern based on the Director's decision what specific evidence was considered in reaching this 
determination. As the decision only vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, 
without specifically identifying the evidence considered, the Director should re-examine the 
Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion 
on remand. In addition to detailed letters from both colleagues and independent experts in her field, 
the Petitioner's evidence in support of the original contributions criterion included the Petitioner's 
citation record from Google Scholar, evidence related to the journals that published her work and their 
3 
respective rankings and impact factors, documentation of "notable citations" intended to demonstrate 
how her research contributions have impacted the field, information regarding the governmental 
entities that have funded her previous work, and a supporting letter that contains a 13-page explanation 
of her specific contributions in the field. 
Finally, in addition to the issues addressed above, the record before us on appeal appears to be 
incomplete. The record reflects that the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) on April 11, 
2022. The decision indicates that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) received a 
response to the RFE on July 5, 2022 that included "a letter, an updated detailed citation record, 
additional support letters, and a more detailed account of the beneficiary's published work." While 
USCIS systems indicate receipt of an RFE response on that date, the RFE response has not been 
incorporated into the record. We also note that the Petitioner states on appeal that she did not submit 
"additional support letters" in response to an RFE. It is the responsibility of the Director to ensure 
that the record is complete and contains all evidence that has been submitted by the Petitioner or 
considered by USCIS in reaching its decision. See, e.g., Matter of Gibson, 16 I&N Dec. 58, 59 (BIA 
1976); 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
previously submitted evidence and to ensure that the record of proceedings is complete and includes 
any response the Petitioner submitted in response to the Director's RFE. If after review the Director 
determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an analysis of 
the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24227865 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 18, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a scientist seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
from 2016 through the time he filed the petition, he has conducted research at the I The Petitioner holds a Ph.D. in biomedical sciences from a U.S. university that he earned in 20 14, and 
I I as a research fellow in the developmental and cellular biology fields. At the a 
research fellow is one who possesses a doctoral degree and is on a time-limited, renewable 
appointment. The purpose of the research fellowship is to provide junior-level scientists experience 
in biomedical research while they provide a service relevant to the institute's or center's program 
needs. Those with considerable experience beyond postdoctoral training may be designated as senior 
research fellows. Research Fellow, Research 
D 2022), https:/~-------------------~esearch-fellow. 
The Petitioner indicates in the appeal that he plans to move to a new institute soon after filing the 
appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the criterion associated with original contributions. 
We agree with the Director that the record supports the Petitioner's satisfaction of the judging and 
scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the evidentiary criteria 
relating to contributions of major significance, but after reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
do not agree with that assessment. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided articles he authored and their associated citation record, support letters, 
conference invitations, and job offers. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director made mistakes and 
2 
disregarded evidence he offered under this criterion. Ultimately, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy these requirements here. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
We begin with the letters from those in the Petitioner's field. Within the appeal, the Petitioner 
identifies two letters that we should consider. The first is from I I a professor at a 
university in Finland. After reviewing her letter, we agree with the Director that she describes the 
Petitioner's findings as what appears to be incremental additions to the field's knowledge rather than 
already realized significant contributions. Essentially, Ms. I I does not explain how the 
Petitioner's findings have resulted in significant improvements in the field or how they have propelled 
the field forward. 
Next is the letter from an assistant professor at the University of __________ While 
Mr. I I better describes an impact the Petitioner's research has had in the field, his letter also 
falls short of explaining the significance of those impacts. Although the professor informs us of what 
the Petitioner's findings have enabled and how others have used them, he does not describe how the 
expanded use of the Petitioner's findings have affected the field in a significant manner. 
As it relates to the letters in the record, even though the Director could have offered more in-depth 
analysis of the letters, that evidence was at least considered and was found to be inadequate to satisfy 
the standard under this criterion. It is not erroneous that a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) decision does not cite from each and every letter in support of a petition. Chen v. US. Dep 't 
of Justice, 471 F.3d 315, 338 n.17 (2d Cir. 2006)); Yan Lan Wu v. Ashcroft, 393 F.3d 418, 424-25 (3d 
Cir. 2005); Morales v. I.NS., 208 F.3d 323, 328 (1st Cir. 2000). Especially where the Director 
addressed the contents of any claimed letter, they do not have to directly discuss every one of them. 
Amin, 24 F.4th at 394. And on appeal, the Petitioner has not identified any particular letter in which 
the Director failed to consider its contents that also illustrates his contributions to his broader field are 
of major significance. 
Moving to the publication's stature in which the Petitioner's work was published, the Petitioner claims 
such achievements are "strong evidence of his research capacity and exceptional contributions in the 
academic community." What is lacking is the Petitioner's account of how that equates to this 
criterion's requirements. Simply because publishing in prestigious journals might suggest his research 
is valuable, does not necessarily mean that his valued research has significantly contributed to the field 
as a whole. Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
3 
they were of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or 
highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
His arguments regarding the collective or total number of citations to his published work also fails to 
meet this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner focuses on his total number of citations, but not on 
any particular single article while also comparing that recognition to other leading articles in his field. 
In general, the comparison of a petitioner's cumulative citations to those of others in the field in an 
attempt to draw a conclusion of their comparative impact in the field, is often more appropriate within 
a final merits determination after they have satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. Such a 
comparison may assist in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
We view a comparison of citations to individual scientific articles to be more relevant for this criterion 
in order to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual; see also 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). For example, he did not 
provide the citation rates of other recognized contributions of major significance within the field for 
comparison purposes. Nor has the Petitioner shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed 
unusual reliance on his work. The Petitioner also did not establish what an average or high citation 
rate is within his specialized field. 
Even considering all of the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, he has not shown that his 
work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24215289 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish he had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; and 
• Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to judging and 
authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met the evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon 
which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but he also satisfies one additional category of evidence. Because we conclude the Petitioner 
has satisfied one additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement, but it is 
unnecessary that we evaluate the remaining claimed criteria as the Petitioner is only required to satisfy 
three of the regulatory requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided two media interviews. The Director determined that the interviews were about 
safe use of electricity in thunderstorms and protection of power facilities against climate and 
2 
environmental disasters. The Director further decided that this criterion was not met because the 
material only cites, quotes, or references the Petitioner, and there was a lack of discussion of him or 
his work. On appeal, the Petitioner notes that both forms of evidence were exclusive interviews with 
him and they were directly discussing his work. 
The first form of evidence is titled I l and it appeared 
on the I I Evening News website onl I 2018. Although the interview is 
extremely brief, it is about the flow of electricity during thunderstorms. Much of the Petitioner's work 
relates to electrical insulator technology to prevent electric arcs or flashover. While the extent of this 
evidence may be on the lower end of the scale, we do not agree with the Director's ultimate conclusion 
that it is not about him or his work. 
As it relates to whether this evidence is a form of major media, even though this publication is a 
historied entity dating back almost a century, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy discusses the requirements for published material under this criterion stating that it should 
"establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show who the intended audience is .... " See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit any material establishing the 
circulation statistics for the !Evening News website, nor did he provide other circulation 
statistics in which to compare with this publication. Without these types of materials, the Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient evidence to establish the I !Evening News website constitutes 
major media. 1 
Next, the second interview appeared onl l part ofthel INews Network in China. This 
evidence is a more substantive interview with the Petitioner, again about lightning emanating from 
thunderstorms and preventing the resulting electrical transmissions. We conclude this evidence is 
about the Petitioner and his work. Unlike the other evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner 
provided data associated with this publication's website. The evidence reflects! I has over 46 
million daily unique visitors. This material satisfies the plain language requirements of this criterion, 
and we withdraw the Director's adverse determination on this issue. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish 
eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
1 We also note the U.S. State Department has designated "the U.S. operations of .. Evening News ... as [a] 
foreign mission[]." The State Department indicated this publication met the definition of a foreign mission under the 
Foreign Missions Act in that they are "substantially owned or effectively controlled" by the People's Republic of China 
and it serves as a propaganda outlet for the Chinese Government. Designation of Additional PRC Propaganda Outlets as 
Foreign Missions, U.S. Department of State (Oct. 21, 2020), https://2017-2021.state.gov/designation-of-additional-prc­
propaganda-outlets-as- foreign-missions/index.html. 
3 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23133628 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bodybuilder, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets five 
evidentiary criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on International Federation of Bodybuilding 
Fitness Professional League (IFBB Pro League) membership. On appeal, the Petitioner references a 
letter from J-B-M-, president ofIFBB Pro League, who indicated: 
Before becoming an IFBB Pro, a bodybuilder must earn their IFBB Pro Card. Any 
bodybuilder wishing to obtain an IFBB Pro Card must first join the NPC (National 
Physique Committee), which is the largest amateur bodybuilding organization in the 
United States and awards IFBB Pro Cards to the winners of their best competitors. 
Amateur bodybuilding athletes compete in regional competitions sanctioned by the 
NPC, the only amateur organization recognized by the IFBB Pro League. 
When a bodybuilder earns or has a high ranking, he or she receives an invitation to 
compete in their country's national professional qualification championship that year. 
2 
Athletes winning each category in the National Pro Qualifier Championships receives 
the right to apply for the IFBB Pro Card and become a member of the IFBB PRO 
LEAGUE to compete in professional championships. 
In addition, the Petitioner cites to an expert opinion letter from J-A-, program director at 
Community College, who stated: 
In order to become an IFBB Pro, a bodybuilder must first earn his or her IFBB Pro 
Card. A bodybuilder looking to do this must first win a regional contest weight class. 
When a bodybuilder wins or places highly, he or she earns an invite to compete at his 
or her country's National Championships contest for that year. 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 1 According to the letters discussed above, "[ a ]hletes 
winning each category in the National Pro Qualifier Championships receives the right to apply for the 
IFBB Pro Card and become a member of the IFBB PRO LEAGUE to compete in professional 
championships," and"[ w ]hen a bodybuilder wins or places highly, he or she earns an invite to compete 
at his or her country's National Championships contest for that year."2 Here, recognized national or 
international experts do not judge outstanding achievements for membership with IFBB Pro League. 
Rather, bodybuilders receive an invite when they receive or have a high ranking or win or place highly; 
national or international experts do not judge a bodybuilder's achievements to determine their 
outstanding nature, nor does the IFBB Pro League requires outstanding achievements as a requisite 
for membership. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show how winning a regional contest weight 
class is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on 1 7 internet items and two interviews. In 
order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether the evidence reflects published 
material about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field, which contains the required title, date, 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a foreign associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 Although the Petitioner provided IFBB' s constitution and bylaws, they do not mention the IFBB Pro League, nor do they 
support the letters' claims. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
3 
and author. If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether 
professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
As it relates to the internet material, the Petitioner did not include the dates for 4 of the items and the 
authors for 14 of them. Furthermore, only 6 of the items reflect published material about the Petitioner 
relating to her work. In fact, the majority of the items either make no mention of the Petitioner, contain 
only photographs without any written material, or simply list the Petitioner as a competitor or finisher 
without any published material about her. Moreover, the items reflect press coverage of bodybuilding 
events and competitions rather than about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). 
Thus, the record shows that the Petitioner provided two items reflecting published material about her 
relating her work, as well as containing the regulatory requirement of the titles, dates, and authors of 
the material -I ltv andl lblog. Regarding! ltv, the Petitioner did not 
attach any information establishing that the website qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. 4 As it pertains tol lblog, the Petitioner submitted data 
from SimilarWeb for I However, the Petitioner did not submit information relating to 
I blog, the actual website that posted the article. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate the significance of the SimilarWeb figures (i.e., global ranking of 11,543, country ranking 
of 440, and industry ranking of 1,515), showing that the website represents a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
Regarding the two interviews, the Petitioner provided a transcript of a television interview from 
News Online posted on Y ouTube and a transcript of a radio interview from I I Podcast 
posted on I I The Petitioner, however, did not include the regulatory required titles, dates, 
and authors of the material. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the specific You Tube 
and I I channels (youtube.com/watch I and I lcom/user-
1 I enjoy standing as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, nor did the Petitioner offer evidence relating to 
News Online orl IPodcast. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that"[ a ]11 her publications are professional publications because they are 
aimed to a specialized audience (bodybuilding athletes and fans)." However, the Petitioner does not 
reference any evidence to support her assertion. Moreover, the term "profession" shall include but not 
be limited to architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers in elementary or 
secondary schools, colleges, academics, or seminaries. See section 10l(a)(32) of the Act. Moreover, 
"profession" means one of the occupations listed in section 10l(a)(32) of the Act, as well as any 
occupation for which a United States baccalaureate degree or its foreign equivalent is the minimum 
requirement for entry in the occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that her occupation as a bodybuilder falls within the definition of "profession" as defined 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in 
print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material). 
4 
in the law and regulations. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that the internet sites and 
interview venues qualify as professional publications. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on a critical role for On appeal, the P Petitioner references a letter from W-A-, marketing director and co-founder of On 
and the previously discussed letter from J-A-. According to W-A-: 
Since February 2020, [the Petitioner] joined ourl lteam of sponsored 
athletes. She has produced relevant and valuable content for the company's social 
media. [The Petitioner's] outstanding career and recognition in the bodybuilding field 
has helped our organization to increase tremendously the number of our social media 
followers, which has exponentially helped our organization to gain new customers and 
to skyrocket our sales . 
. . . [The Petitioner] has performed a critical role for our organization, specifically in 
the promotion of our product 
She showed our social media followers and customers thatl I not only 
enhances recovery but also contribute to increase energy and protein synthesis because 
it contains Peak 02, scientifically developed to increase performance and power with 
a proven blend of six natural adaptogens. [The Petitioner] also explained our social 
media followers that I I contains a Hydration Blend to prevent muscle 
breakdown and maintain people's health on check. 
Moreover, [the Petitioner] has played a critical role forl by helping our 
company to increase the sales of the products and She 
explained via Instagram posts that I I provides a high energy thermogenic 
that not only keeps people energized and focused during times of dieting but works to 
increase calorie expenditure (burning), making our customers efforts even more 
effective. 
[The Petitioner] successfully participated in the marketing campaign of our product 
explaining that it works to remove excess water, further enhance calorie bum 
and accelerate results as the finishing touch before a competition, photoshoot, pool 
party, or any other specific event. 
5 
Additionally, [the Petitioner] played a critical role forl lin the promotion 
of our product She explained our social media followers and customers 
that is an all-natural, non-hormonal anabolic formula that aids in gaining 
lean muscle, increasing recovery rate, and increasing nutrient utilization. 
For a critical role, individuals must establish that they have contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment.5 W-A-'s letter, however, does not provide specific, 
detailed information explaining how the Petitioner's contributions to I I resulted in 
successful outcomes for the business. Instead, the letter describes the Petitioner's promotional efforts 
without showing how those promotions impacted I While the letter makes the broad 
claim that the Petitioner "helped I Ito rapidly increase our client portfolio, which 
profoundly and positively impacted our sales in the United States," J-A-did not further elaborate and 
articulate how the Petitioner's specific promotional efforts led to the claim of increased client 
portfolios or sales. J-A-did not, for instance, indicate! Isales prior to and after the 
Petitioner's social media promotions to reflect the Petitioner's essential performance onl I 
I !revenue. Without further, thorough information, the general claims in J-A's letter is 
insufficient to demonstrate the critical role that the Petitioner's performed forl 6 
Regarding J-A-'s letter, he simply summarizes and repeats the statements from W-A-'s letter. J-A's 
letter does not offer any new or different information from W-A-'s letter, nor does he establish the 
Petitioner's critical role forl I Moreover, although J-A-'s letter continually asserts that 
the Petitioner performed in a "critical role," the letter does not contain specific, detailed information 
to corroborate its assertions. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajf'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). 
Notwithstanding the above, this regulatory criterion also requires the leading or critical role be for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 7 Although she claims that 
lhas [a] distinguished reputation," the Petitioner does not cite or reference to any 
evidence to support her assertion. Further, while W-A-'s letter provides a brief description and history 
of the company, the letter does not contain any information relating the business' reputation. Nor does 
the record reflect! I enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. (providing that this is one criterion where letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the 
person's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters 
contained detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, 
establishment, division. or department was leading or critical). 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (referencing Merriam-Webster's online dictionary and defining 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person). 
6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd., 724 F. Supp. 
at 1108, ajj'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies the criteria relating to membership, published 
material, and leading or critical role. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria on appeal, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), we 
need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league 
level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) ( stating that "[c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
8 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22654470 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Workers, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that they received a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did they demonstrate that they met at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requires a valid signature on certain documents filed 
with the agency (request). 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2). Unless specifically authorized , a benefit requestor 
must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with USCIS. Here, the Petitioner's counsel 
signed the Form l-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion in both the Petitioner's portion (Part 4.6.a.) as well 
as the preparer's portion (Part 6.8.a.). Consequently , we do not recognize this Form l-290B as being 
properly executed or filed, nor do we recognize the appeal to have been properly filed by an affected 
party with legal standing in these proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B}-(2)(i). 
Based on this issue, we conclude that this signature is deficient, and we will dismiss this appeal as 
improperly filed. According to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A), USCIS will reject a request that does 
not bear a valid signature when it receives the request. Likewise, it stands that a request without a 
valid signature that USCIS does not discover until a later date also will not be considered as properly 
filed. See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual B.2(A), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual. Once 
USCIS initially accepts a benefit request and subsequently discovers a deficient signature, the matter 
is denied or dismissed rather than rejected. See generally I USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.2(A). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372913 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biochemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior fellow and acting instructor at the University of I He is a scientist 
in the field of biochemistry; the record demonstrates that his research on protein-based materials and 
artificial hydrogen production has been published in several journals and cited by numerous 
researchers, and that his work has garnered two early-stage commercialization grants from the I I Research Foundation. The Petitioner plans to continue his work as a researcher and 
instructor at the University of I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three criteria he claimed to have 
satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work and authorship of scholarly articles in the field of 
biochemistry.1 The Director concluded, however, that although the Petitioner has made original 
scientific contributions to the field of biochemistry, the record did not establish that he had made 
contributions of major significance to the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director stated 
that the recommendation letters discussing the Petitioner's work in the field lack specificity regarding 
how his achievements have affected the field as a whole or how they are being reproduced within the 
field. Further, the Director stated that the Petitioner has not established how other researchers have 
widely applied his research results. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all three claimed criteria, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. The Petitioner's appeal includes mission 
statements from journals to support his assertion that publication in these journals demonstrates that 
his research is of major significance. The Petitioner also submits a non-precedent AAO decision 
related to the field of biochemistry that was sustained in 2010.2 The Petitioner's appeal letter provides 
an overview of evidence submitted initially and in response to a request for evidence that consisted, 
in part, of numerous letters from scientists representing universities within and outside of the United 
States. The endorsements from these individuals entailed detailed discussions of their use of the 
Petitioner's research for their own projects, as well as descriptions of references made to the 
Petitioner's work in research publications well known throughout the scientific community. The 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). 
2 Every visa adjudication applies existing law and policy to the specific facts of an individual case. Non-precedent 
decisions do not bind us in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
2 
record included both the articles referenced and objective analysis concerning citation percentiles to 
support the Petitioner's claim of influence in several spheres of scientific study. The Petitioner states 
that the Director did not discuss any specific deficiencies with regard to documents submitted to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's contributions of major significance, and that the Director improperly 
dismissed evidence without proper explanation. 
An evaluation of whether original contributions are of major significance to the field should consider 
any probative analysis provided by experts in the field; endorsement letters that do not simply use 
hyperbolic language, but articulate the impact of an individual's contributions, may inform 
adjudication of this criterion. 3 The endorsement letters of record contain detailed information 
concerning the impact of the Petitioner's work in furthering research in treatments for cancer, diabetes, 
and migraine, as well as in the development of artificial hydrogen production using renewable sources 
to create carbon-free energy. While acknowledging the originality of the Petitioner's contributions to 
the field of biochemistry, the Director's decision did not analyze these letters in terms of how their 
content might inform an assessment of the level of significance of those contributions. The Director's 
decision also did not discuss evidence of collaborative efforts between the University of I 
and a pharmaceutical company involving use of the Petitioner's integrin binder-a novel molecule 
that he created-as a mechanism for delivering targeted therapeutic payloads to cancer cells. A letter 
from the grant program at the I I Research Foundation explains that the Petitioner was 
awarded funding to facilitate the clinical application and commercialization of his research. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Director did not adequately address the evidence of record 
regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa 
petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Therefore, we 
will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address whether the Petitioner has established that he has 
made original contributions of major significance to the field of biochemistry in accordance with 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). If the Director determines that the Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence 
of this criterion, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https:///www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23841598 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 25, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician and singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement, that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer and songwriter specializing in Armenian pop and folk music. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or an allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Artistic display; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to lesser awards and artistic display. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard and maintains that he meets at least one further criterion through the submission of 
comparable evidence. The Petitioner does not pursue his initial claim that he meets the criteria relating 
to published material, judging, and leading or critical role on appeal, nor does he contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding these issues. We therefore consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
11 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not identify a specific original artistic contribution that he has made, but instead referred 
to evidence of his receipt of the title of "HONORED ARTIST" granted to him by the president of the 
Republic of Armenia and his solo performances at international concerts and events. While this evidence 
serves to verify the Petitioner's work as a musician and singer, it does not establish that he has made 
original contributions that have influenced other singers or otherwise been of major significance to the 
field. 
The record also includes a number of reference letters discussing the Petitioner's musical work.2 For 
example, the Petitioner submitted letters from several "honored artists" of Armenia, including I I 
_____________ who state that the Petitioner "is one of the best performing artists 
in Armenia" and that "his concerts are overcrowded with s ectators in different cities of the world." 
of of Armenia, states the Petitioner "is a 
motivated, very artistic, and responsible person with a high level of intelligence," and that "he is one of 
the best Armenian folk-pop entertainers of his generation." I I Manager of the Armenian 
I I states that the Petitioner was the headliner for thel I 
in July 2019, and notes that the Petitioner's "name and esteem brought over 5,000 excited 
fans to see him perform for the first time in Canada." 
Although the letters praise the Petitioner's skills and talents, simply having a unique or special skill set is 
not intrinsically a contribution of major significance. The record must be supported by evidence that the 
Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant level, which he has 
not shown. In addition, the letters do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's talents and skills have been a 
major influence in the field of endeavor. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2 (Appendix), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his music constitutes "contributions of major significance 
in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). While the record includes some evidence that 
the Petitioner's musical talents have been recognized, it is insufficient to confirm that his work has been 
widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Moreover, while the record demonstrates his popularity 
in Armenia, and while the letters indicate that the Petitioner has received some attention from the field 
for his performances and recordings in the Armenian music genre, they are insufficient to establish that 
the extent of his influence has risen to the level of "major significance in the field." For example, while 
Mr. I I indicated that the Petitioner's performance at the I I was 
well-received, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the reception of his work supports a finding 
that it constitutes "major significance in the field." Neither the letter nor other evidence in the record 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. . 
3 
confirms that his performance at the festival or any other events or venues resulted in his musical style 
being widely adopted throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. Here, 
however, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his musical work has had on the field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact 
on subsequent work add value. See id. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for 
meeting this criterion. See id. Moreover, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of original contributions of major significance. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he 
meets this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a 
ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on comparable evidence under 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, he asserts that evidence of his YouTube channel, 
"in the absence of databases for Armenian music comparable to the Billboard Top 100, etc.," should 
be considered as comparable evidence applicable to satisfy this criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to a petitioner's 
occupation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendix). A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Here, the Petitioner does not establish why this evidence should be considered as comparable evidence 
under this same criterion that he claims to meet through the submission of reference letters and evidence 
of his performances and recordings. In addition, the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly 
comparable" to the criteria listed in the regulation. The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence 
showing that the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
does not readily apply to his occupation as a musician and singer. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the individual's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that an individual has recorded 
4 
and released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or 
television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must 
show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 (Appendix). 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged his claims 
regarding the commercial success of his musical recordings, but emphasized that the regulatory 
criterion calls for evidence of commercial success in the form of "sales" or "receipts," evidence which 
the Petitioner had not provided. On appeal, the Petitioner argues eligibility for this criterion based on 
comparable evidence in the form of the number of unique visitors to his Y ouTube channel. 
As previously noted, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses comparable evidence and allows 
a petitioner the opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish his or her eligibility, ifUSCIS 
determines that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's occupation. See id. A petitioner 
should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See id. Here, the Petitioner does not show that the standard criteria do not 
readily apply to his occupation. Rather, he initially claimed to satisfy several criteria, and has in fact 
satisfied two of them, outright. The Petitioner has not adequately explained his contention that the 
comparable evidence clause applies in this matter. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the wording of this regulatory criterion remains "stuck in the utterly 
outmoded and irrelevant world of obsolete consumer technology," and therefore the YouTube metrics 
should be considered. While the Petitioner's assertions are noted, the regulations, in their published 
form, are binding in this proceeding; the Petitioner has no right or privilege to declare those regulations 
"obsolete" and substitute a new standard more favorable to his interests. While the Petitioner's 
assertions are noted, further discussion of You Tube metrics would be more appropriate in the context 
of a final merits determination once a given individual has met the initial evidentiary threshold at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Here, the Petitioner has not cleared that threshold, and therefore a more 
detailed discussion of the YouTube metrics would not affect the outcome of the proceeding. 
However, assuming arguendo that the Petitioner established that this criterion does not apply to his 
occupation, and that the type of evidence he submitted is in fact comparable to that specifically called for 
under this criterion, the Petitioner has still not established that he has enjoyed commercial success as a 
performing artist. First, the majority of the evidence pertaining to his YouTube channel and the number 
of times his videos have been viewed or streamed post-dates the filing of the petition. For example, the 
Petitioner submits screenshots of his Y ouTube channel demonstrating the total number of views for 
videos such as and' " which were 
released inl 12020, 0211 12021, and I 12021, respectively. As noted by the 
Director, the metrics for these videos do not support the Petitioner's assertion that he had achieved 
commercial success at the time the petition was filed in April 2020. A petitioner must establish eligibility 
at the time of filing; a petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner or beneficiary 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). 
5 
In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that a certain quantity of streams or 
views of his videos, whether considered individually or as a whole, can serve as a gauge of commercial 
success. Although the Petitioner provided screenshots from Y ouTube, he did not offer evidence of his 
commercial successes through receipts or sales, and did not demonstrate that his presence on Y ouTube 
resulted in a volume of sales reflecting commercial successes compared to other musicians or singers. 
For that reason, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner is insufficient to show that his videos, which 
have been streamed and viewed on Y ouTube, have been commercially successful. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record 
indicates that the Petitioner has enjoyed some success as a musician and signer, but it does not show 
that this success has translated into individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23214182 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 26, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a folk and classical singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate their 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows their sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has studied music and erformed as a folk and classical singer since 1997, when he first 
entered a preparatory course at Conservatory I I a regional state-run musical 
conservatory located in __ Armenia. He interrupted his musical studies to perform compulsory 
military service from 1998 through 2000. In 2001, he returned to to study vocal theory, 
graduating with the qualification of an "an opera and concert singer-teacher in the field of vocal art." 
The record does not reflect whether he earned an academic de ree there. Startin in 2005 he worked 
for and toured internationally with the Armenian 
as a vocal soloist. He has toured as a singer, not only with but also with other ensembles such 
as the Armenian He entered the United States 
in March 2021 as a B-2 nonimmigrant and indicates that, subject to the approval of this petition, he 
plans to tour and teach vocal theory to "bring renewed attention and respect for folk and classical 
Armenian songs in the United States." 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display of his work at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which is supported by the record. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
the eight remaining regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which we will discuss in tum. 1 
1 While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence (1) of membership in an association, (2) that the 
association be in the petitioner's academic field, and (3) that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion through his employment withl The Director 
determined that he did not meet this criterion, in part, because the record did not demonstrate that I qualifies as an "association which requires outstanding achievements of their members .... " 
He concluded that the letters submitted to establish I I membership requirements were not 
supported by objective contemporaneous evidence, such as its by-laws or other organizational 
documents to illustrate its membership requirements. The Director specifically asked for such 
evidence in a request for evidence (RFE) prior to the denial of the petition. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to letters from individuals he considers to be experts in his field who 
assert thatl ldoes have such membership requirements. In particular, he discusses letters from I I asserting that he is I I director and insisting that his letters are 
probative evidence sufficient to establish its membership requirements. 
First, the Petitioner has not shown thatl I director. The Petitioner submitted a partially 
translated foreign language brochure, issued to celebrate I !anniversary in 2018. The 
brochure states thatl lhas beenl director since 1984. Many other individuals 
are noted as serving or having served in leadership capacities withinl I over the years, but 
is not mentioned as a member of the leadership team in the document's partial English translation. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a complete and properly certified English language translation, 
we cannot determine if the partially translated material is accurate and supports the Petitioner's claims 
regarding! I authority to speak onl I behalf on issues like its membership requirements 
and the significance of the Petitioner's role within the organization. 
The Director stated in the RFE and denial that any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3 ). The translator must certify 
that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate 
from the foreign language into English. Id. Many of the provided foreign language documents lack 
the required full certified English translations and we incorporate our concerns regarding these 
documents, relating to this and other criteria. Without the required translations, they are of little 
probative value. In evaluating the evidence, eligibility is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
3 
Even ifc=]is qualified to describe! I membership requirements, he presents inconsistent and 
insufficient information in his letters of the methodology it used in 2005 to hire the Petitioner. For 
instance, in his 2021 letterl indicated thatl I requirements for membership are: 
• A diploma from 
• 10 years of work experience, recognized in the field of expertise; 
• Nomination for membership entered by the Director, and; 
• A final determination to be made by the committee of Ministry of Culture of 
Armenia. 
The requirement of a diploma fromc=J-;eems to limit membership soley to those who attended this 
regional state-run music school, which raises doubts regarding whether membership meets the 
plain language standards of this criterion. Also, while I lwork experience requirement implies 
its members must be experienced, it does not support the Petitioner's claim that it limits membership 
only to those who have outstanding achievements in their field. 
Although I !contends that I I requires "l 0 years of work experience," according to the 
Petitioner's own biographical statements and other evidence in the record, he gained membership in 
2005 at the age of 25 -well before he acquired ten years of work experience. In addition, while 
indicates membership is decided by a committee in the Armenian ministry of culture, the Petitioner 
has not offered evidence of his nomination and ultimate approval for membership inl I nor has 
he demonstrated that persons who comprise the Armenian ministry of culture committee qualify as 
"recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies and ambiguities in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). 
alternately asserts in his 2022 letter that "for [ the Petitioner] to pass the rigorous test of becoming 
a member of we organized a competition where [he] proved with his singing ability, talent 
and knowledge of Armenian folk and eastern traditional songs and music, that he is still the best and 
has no equal." did not indicate in his 2021 letter thatl requires competition for those who 
wish to gain membership, nor does he describe in his 2022 letter how the Petitioner's competition was 
conducted, the requirements for participation, and whether others beyond the Petitioner were allowed 
to compete. 
The Petitioner has not explained whyl I I presents inconsistent methods through which vocalists are 
admitted tol I We conclude that letters lend little probative value to the matter here. 
Doubt cast on any aspect of the Petitioner's [evidence] may, of course, lead to a reevaluation of the 
reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter of 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. The 
Petitioner says he qualifies for this criterion based on his role as a soloist for I I but the Director 
determined the record did not give sufficient information about his position or its duties to show his 
role was essential to the outcome ofl I activities. The Director also noted the limited English 
translations of I brochure identified many other people who are engaged in its management 
and oversight in positions such as director, chorus masters, conductors and choreographers, and that 
neither the Petitioner nor are mentioned in the documentation as performing in any of these roles. 
The Director also explained how other letters submitted to establish the nature of the Petitioner's 
singing roles at various venues, such as an event to mark the anniversary of a composer, showed 
that he was a valued participant in these performances, but did not illustrate that he performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his role sets him apart from others who 
perform in these musical ensembles, nor was there sufficient evidence to show his positioning in 
establishments that have distinguished reputations in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically address the concerns outlined by the Director in his 
denial but instead generally asserts that the Director "did not review the contents of the letters in 
detail." Based on our de novo review, we agree with the Director that it is not apparent from the 
evidence how the Petitioner's role forl land the other referenced organizations was leading or 
critical, or that these entities enjoy distinguished reputations. Accordingly, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references! I letters which allege that the Petitioner "as a best soloist, 
also has a remarkably high salary at our ensemble compared to the other soloists in Armenia. He 
receives high compensation from [the] ensemble's concerts and receives bonus compensation for his 
performances." We incorporate our previous concerns regarding the probative value ofl I letters 
with regard to the conditions of the Petitioner's employment with I Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
at591-92. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not presented documentary evidence to show what 
his compensation was as a soloist. Nor does the offered evidence compare his salary or remuneration 
5 
to others similarly employed to establish he has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration 
for his services. The plain language of the regulation requires the Petitioner to demonstrate his salary 
is high when compared to others performing similar work in his field, and he has not done so. This 
criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner stated that he has performed as a soloist in collaboration with other Armenian ensembles 
in many concerts and referenced his letters of support and promotional materials about his 
performances, but the Director concluded that this material did not sufficiently constitute evidence of 
his commercial successes. This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish his commercial success 
through economic measures, such as volume of sales or box office receipts. The evidence includes a 
sold-out flyer for an organization's anniversary event at a Holiday Inn inl I But the 
Petitioner did not provide ticket sales data for this and other events where he performed to show the 
revenue he earned as a vocalist. The Director explained that without knowing the size of a venue, 
simply selling all tickets is not sufficient evidence of commercial successes. The letters also did not 
offer data about box office receipts at the Petitioner's events or revenue earned from the sale of his 
recorded music. For instance, one letter stated that the Petitioner performed at thel lof 
Armenia, but without sales documentation and comparable records for other singers, the evidence is 
insufficient to show his commercial success. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references the previously submitted evidence, such as letters, program 
brochures and event advertisements, and contends that the Director erred in requiring documentary 
evidence of his commercial success, such as sales revenue or box office receipts. He asserts that 
requiring such evidence is in error as "[tt ]he regulation never states on its face that the box office sales 
are the only regulating and deciding factor under this criterion." While we may agree that box office 
sales are not the only determining factor, we disagree with his proposition that general evidence of 
"his performances with different ensembles around the world," is sufficient to demonstrate his 
commercial successes in the performing arts. Here the plain language specifically calls for the 
submission of documentary evidence of monetary compensation or other commercially recognized 
rankings for his performing arts services, such as box office receipts or sales volumes for his musical 
products, to show that the Petitioner is commercially successful. Without more, the evidence provided 
falls short of the documentary requirements for this criterion. Accordingly, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that he "has not been an author of any books or scholarly 
articles," and he does not specifically contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not discuss this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
6 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion and we agree. For 
instance, the Petitioner provided a foreign language songbook entitled "Wedding Rites and Komitas," 
which was written and published in 2019 by another individual, A-S-. He describes the book as the 
product of a "project [to] recover [traditional] wedding rites while adapting them to contemporary 
requirements," and asserts he was invited to sing the songs in the book. The Petitioner has not 
adequately explained how this book of wedding songs constitutes published material about him, nor 
has he shown that the book publisher qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or as major 
media. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles discussing events where the Petitioner performed while touring 
through various locales. Although the Petitioner's performances are mentioned, the articles appear to 
recount the occurrence of his concerts as general public interest stories. The Director concluded that 
this evidence reflected mostly promotional content for ensemble performances and were not articles 
specifically about the Petitioner. He noted, for example, that the Petitioner's singing work was 
mentioned in one sentence among four translated paragraphs in an article reporting on the last night 
of the I I Group's performance and discussed the performances of multiple individuals 
and a dance group program. Likewise, another article described a 'I I' ensemble performance, 
and one sentence mentioned the Petitioner and another soloist who participated in the performance. 
These articles are not published material about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about individual performers in that show). 
The Petitioner has also not offered evidence sufficient to show these publications qualify as major 
media based on the limited circulation data provided about them. As these periodicals target their 
content to a segment of the general public located in Kuwait, Turkey, and elsewhere, the evidence also 
does not demonstrate they qualify as professional or major trade publications. 
Finally, the Petitioner offers links to his vocal performances published on Y ouTube. Without more, 
the availability of his recorded performances on Y ouTube does not illustrate that this is published 
material in major media. The internet in general and Y ouTube in particular are arenas available to 
any user with access to a computer and an internet connection regardless of notoriety or recognition 
in the performing arts. To conclude otherwise would render the "major media" requirement in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) meaningless. International internet accessibility by itself is 
not a realistic indicator of whether content posted on a given website constitutes major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on a gold medal issued to him by the Armenian 
ministry ofl I in 2011 and two certificates from this government agency on other occasions. A 
third certificate issued with the gold medal states that the medal was awarded to the Petitioner "[f]or 
his significant contribution to the field of Armenian music, on the occasion of the anniversary of 
7 
the independence of the Republic of Armenia, the I soloist was awarded with a gold medal of 
the Ministry ofl lofthe Republic of Armenia." 
A 2022 letter from deputy minister, Republic of Armenia, Ministry of ___ 
indicated that the Petitioner was given the award for his "significant 
contribution to the field of Armenian Song and music," noting that the award was "given to few artists 
and performers for their high skills and great merit in promotion and development of arts." The record 
also includes evidence about other recipients of this same award, including a cultural exchange 
supporter for his contributions "to Armenian Japanese friendship," a television anchor and author for 
her contributions "to the development of Armenian and global opera art on the occasion of the 30th 
anniversary of her career," and a museum curator for "her input and [her museum's] activities in the 
museum field of Armenia which stood out for their exemplary standards of programming and 
operations." 
The Director requested evidence in the RFE to establish specific details pertaining to the criteria for 
granting the awards; if there were others that were considered for the award; if there were any 
limitations on competitors; and if the basis for granting the award was excellence in the performing 
arts. The Petitioner did not sufficiently address this aspect either in his RFE response or on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "the words 'significant contribution' has a meaning of 
'excellence' as is indicated in the plain language of the regulation." While we acknowledge the 
submitted letters, the record does not contain sufficient contemporaneous documentary evidence that 
explains the basis for these awards to show that they qualify as an award for excellence in the 
performing arts. Rather, the evidence suggests that the Minister of I of the Republic of Armenia 
periodically gives awards to recognize individuals who work in a wide variety of occupations which 
promote Armenian culture. The Petitioner has not adequately established that the "significant 
contributions" referenced by the Minister of I lin granting the award are synonymous with an 
award for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Though requested by the Director in the RFE, the record lacks sufficient evidence from the award­
granting institution (in this case the Armenian ministry of that identifies its purpose for these 
awards and the methodology it uses to select recipients for them. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). It is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not done so here. Without more, submitting evidence of the 
Petitioner's receipt of awards is insufficient to meet the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). We incorporate our concerns regarding the lack of probative evidence about these 
awards in our consideration of the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 376. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends he has made original contributions in the field of performing arts, with a 
specific emphasis on Armenian folk and classical singing. The submitted evidence includes letters 
from other musicians, cultural representatives, directors, composers, and professors, awards, 
8 
performance playbills, and articles about his performances which we have previously addressed and 
incorporate here from our analysis of other criterion. 
The Director discussed the letters in the denial and emphasized that while the authors described the 
Petitioner's work forl I other ensembles, and his ability to sing folk and classical songs in unique 
ways, they lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field or how his 
techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field. For instance, one writer notes thatD D the regional music school where the Petitioner studied music years ago -utilizes his musical 
recordings because his "improvisations and additional styles and genres in singing Armenian folk, 
classical and traditional songs [are] critical for [students] to understand the potential of the singer's 
voice and the song's performance for the audience .... " The Director recognized the Petitioner's 
professional accomplishments, but ultimately determined that the testimonial evidence did not 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination and reiterates that the testimonials from 
experts in his field demonstrate that his work is original and that he has made contributions of major 
significance to his field of endeavor. The Petitioner asserts the previously submitted letters show that 
he "has made major significant contributions to the preservation and development of Armenian art 
and music to be able to sing Armenian traditional and classical songs in a unique style only attributed 
to him," and that he has been an "extraordinary singer to many schools of music in Armenia and 
around the world." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has not only made original contributions, 
but that they have been of major significance in the performing arts field. Major significance in the 
field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. The documents in the record primarily contain 
attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without providing specific examples of how his 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
For instance, according to the letter froml I (who was educated at and has been 
employed there as a teacher), the Petitioner "has made contributions of major significance to the 
preservation of the Armenian traditional songs and music by giving them new breadth and style to be 
followed by further Armenian great singers." (Emphasis added.) Likewise,! director 
of the Armenian! I indicates that the Petitioner has performed with his 
orchestra many times, and asserts that the singers [including the Petitioner] who participated in a 
concert dedicated to thOanniversary of a composer "were in the top 1 % of all singers in Armenia." 
He contends that the Petitioner "not only preserves the traditions of the school of the Armenian 
traditional and folk music, but also prepares future singers with the utmost responsibilities." 
While the letter writers expound on the Petitioner's stage presence and singing abilities, they do not 
discuss the specific traditional song preservation and vocal teaching efforts of major significance that 
the Petitioner has been engaged in, beyond performing such songs in concerts. Without more, letters 
that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already 
influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 
1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept letters which 
9 
offer primarily conclusory statements. See 1756, Inc. v. US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 
1990) (holding that an agency need not credit conclusory assertions in immigration benefits 
adjudications). For these reasons, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of his professional achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678658 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 31, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pastor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirement s for this classification , he did not 
establish that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at 
the very top of his field. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director's decision is conclusory and without a thoughtful evaluation of the entire record. The 
Petitioner also contends that the Director analyzed the evidence under a higher standard of proof going 
beyond the standard of preponderance of the evidence and dismissed probative documentation in the 
record. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastor in the field of Christian missions. The Petitioner has not indicated that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the ten 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
the following five criteria: (1) published material in professional or major trade publications, (2) the 
receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, (3) original business 
contributions of major significance, (4) performance in a critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation, and ( 5) membership in associations for which require outstanding 
achievements of their members. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the following four criteria: (1) published material in 
professional or major trade publications, (2) original business contributions of major significance, (3) 
performance in a critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and ( 4) 
membership in associations for which require outstanding achievements of their members. Upon 
review of the record, we agree with the Director's determination regarding the published material 
criterion but do not agree with the Director's determination regarding the original contributions, 
critical role, and membership in associations criteria. Therefore, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner claimed that he has made a significant contribution in the field, specifically in his ability 
to identify, analyze, and solve pressing societal needs through the efforts of his nonprofit organization, 
___________________ To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted 
recommendation letters from various individuals, information about from from the website, a 
pre-meeting package of a balance sheet ofl I bank statements of invoices 
issued tol I and transaction receipts of !showing transfers of money from to various 
individuals. 
For example, a letter from I I a pastor and a Christian singer, states that through __ 
the Petitioner has become well known as one of the leading missionaries and he brought material, 
emotional, and spiritual support to Christians undergoing great tribulations. The Petitioner also 
submitted a letter from I I a member of U.S. Congress, which states that the Petitioner has 
created and implemented one of the most innovative ministries in Brazil by providing "methods and a 
structure, such as farming, micro-credit, sports programs, leadership training, and other creative 
projects." A letter from I I the Attorney General of the State of !Brazil, 
states that I I has helped communities establish schools, pig and chicken farming in various 
regions, job training, and sports programs and that the Petitioner's vision of ministry is very unique, 
and it addresses a global problem with a focus on the local communities. The Petitioner also submitted 
a letter from I I the Director and founder ofl I which states that I I aims to 
transform local communities where Christians are persecuted and strengthen them to stay and thrive, 
despite the adversity. A letter from in the Legislative 
Branch of the government of Brazil, states that the Petitioner established a novel missionary model 
where he sends out leaders, including business administrators and other professionals, who will equip 
and train church leaders and members with practical skills and solutions. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field as claimed. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Major significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. The 
recommendation letters indicate that the Petitioner has created and implemented innovative ministries 
by providing methods and a structure, such as farming, micro-credit, sports programs, leadership 
training, and other creative projects. However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
establish that he is solely responsible for creating and implementing these various programs. The 
record does not sufficiently establish the Petitioner's role in these various programs. The record also 
does not sufficiently demonstrate his control or influence over the claimed contributions. Moreover, 
while the recommendation letters discuss missionary activities of in general, they do not explain 
3 
how the Petitioner's missionary work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not sufficiently 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's methods or techniques have been widely used by others in the field. 
The documents in the record do not demonstrate how his contributions rise to a level consistent with 
major significance. Vague, solicited letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
the petitioner's contributions have already influenced the field is insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 
2009) aff'd in part 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed that he has performed in a critical role in the establishment of lin several 
regions that played a major role with Haitian hurricane relief effort, micro-financing in Burundi, and 
pig and chicken farming in Guinea Bissau. The Petitioner also claimed that he performed in a critical 
role for the government of Brazil when he was asked to assist in resolving problems exacerbated from 
an influx of refugees. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters from 
various individuals, information aboutl I from thel I website, and business entity summary 
of I from the Massachusetts Secretary of State website. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I the Director and founder of I 
which states that the Petitioner, the founder and leader of has influenced a whole generation of 
Brazil to do good things and transform the community. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from 
the President and founder ofl I which states that the Petitioner's vision of 
ministry is so fresh and exiting that it attracts high caliber leaders to carry the to torch ofl I with him. 
A letter from I I a member of U.S. Congress, states that has provided emergency 
assistance to the government of Brazil in receiving persecuted Christians who sought asylum in Brazil 
through programs that help those refugees with assimilation and integration in the local culture. A 
letter froml la senator of Brazil, states that has provided support to the government 
of Brazil in the processing and resettlement of Christian refugees who fled persecution in their 
countries. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence from thel I website about the organization but did 
not submit sufficient independent, objective evidence demonstrating that I I has a reputation that 
distinguishes it from other Christian missionary organizations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that he was admitted to the Church of America as a minister under 
the extraordinary clause of the _____ Order because of his extraordina credentials as a 
theologist and missionary. To su ort this claim, the Petitioner submitted (1) 
Stated Meeting of New Jerse Church in America and (2) the 
I !Order of the Church in America ____ 
The INew Jersey! I states that the Committee has reviewed the Petitioner's 
college and seminary transcri ts and several recommendation letters that directly speak to his service 
as a minister in the Church of Brazil and his work with I I and 
recommended that New Jerse xamines the Petitioner under the extraordinary clause 
according to the Order, sections 13-6 and 21-4, for transfer into the I I 
Church of America. Section 21-4 of the I !Order states that the extraordinary clause 
should be limited to "extraordinary circumstances of the church or proven extraordinary gifts of the 
man." Section 13-6 of the I I Order states that ministers seeking admission to a 
I I in the I Church in America from other I I must be examined on 
"Christian experience, and also touching their views in theology, the Sacraments, and church 
government." 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The record does not reflect that admission to the Church 
of America as a minister under the extraordinary clause of the I I Order requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. Instead, the record reflects that the extraordinary clause is 
limited to extraordinary circumstances of the church or proven extraordinary gifts of the members and 
that the admission requires a review of Christian experience of the members and their views in 
theology, the Sacraments, and church government. Membership requirements based on activity in a 
given field, knowledge in a given field, personal or spiritual views on related subjects, or faith in the 
principal object to be a member do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the claim that 
thel I Church of America requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has shown that he is a devout Christian and a devoted 
pastor in the field of Christian missions. However, the record as a whole does not demonstrate a level 
of recognition that indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 10, 2023 In Re: 27129749 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a public relations director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
I. MOTION TO REOPEN 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner does not state new facts or submit new evidence as required. Since her 
motion to reopen does not meet the regulatory requirements, it will be dismissed . 
II. MOTION TO RECONSIDER 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In her motion to reconsider, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision relating to 
three of the evidentiary criteria, including two that we reserved. She relies on federal district court 
decisions and USCIS policy memoranda to support her motion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that material was published about them and relating 
to their in the field of extraordinary ability. The petitioner need not be the only subject ofthe material, 
but it must include a substantial discussion of the petitioner's work and mention them in connection 
to the work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. The petitioner also must establish, through the submission of evidence of the publication's 
high circulation or viewership compared to others and evidence of its intended audience, that the 
publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Id. 
In our decision, we noted that the Petitioner submitted several articles, but that while at least one 
mentioned her by name, none ofthem were about her and her work in the field ofpublic relations. On 
motion, the Petitioner cites to an unpublished district court decision, Zizi v. Cuccinelli, 2021 WL 
2826713 (N.D. Cal 2021), which found that we were arbitrary and capricious in concluding that 
articles which focused on technology that the petitioner in that case developed were not about him. 
We note that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit 
court, the AAO is not bound to follow the published decision of a United States district court in cases 
arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning 
underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before the 
AAO; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
We farther note that to the extent that the decision in Zizi considers the evidentiary value of the 
evidence to that petitioner's overall claim of extraordinary ability when evaluating it under this 
criterion, it goes against the ninth circuit's previous decision in Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010), which forms the basis of USCIS policy. As stated in our previous decision, the plain 
language of the regulation requires both that published material be about the individual and that it 
relate to their work in the field. In accordance with Kazarian and USCIS policy, consideration of 
whether this evidence, as part of the totality of the record, also shows that the petitioner meets the 
overall standard as an individual of extraordinary ability takes place only in the final merits 
determination. Id. at 1121. We will therefore not follow the reasoning in this district court decision. 
The Petitioner argues that having her name listed as a point of contact on some of the articles shows 
that she led the related public relations projects, and the articles are therefore about her work. 
However, these articles only identify her as the press secretary for an organization or the contact person 
for an event, outside ofthe main text of the materials. As we stated in our previous decision, a passing 
2 
mention ofthe Petitioner is insufficient to make the articles about her. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not shown that she meets this criterion. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner does not challenge the adverse conclusions in our previous 
decision regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (ix), relating to evidence of her 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements, and high salary or significantly high remuneration. Instead, she asserts that 
we erred in not considering the evidence she submitted in support of her claims to the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), which relate to her claimed original business contributions of 
major significance to her field and her leading or critical for organizations with a distinguished 
reputation. 
We explained in our previous decision that because we concluded that she had not met at least one of 
the other criteria she had claimed, and thus could not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of at 
least three of the criteria, we were reserving adjudication on those two criteria. Where, as in this case, 
there is a clearly dispositive issue, we may decline to reach and thereby reserve any remaining issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C­
' 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). Because the Petitioner has not shown on motion that she meets any 
additional evidentiary criteria, she cannot meet the three criteria needed to meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement. In addition, she does not provide support to her argument that we erred in reserving 
those criteria in our previous decision. As such, we will again reserve those criteria. 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, and it is 
dismissed for that reason. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. 
Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 12, 2023 In Re: 22684439 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dressage trainer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Director 
also dismissed a subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider, stating that the Petitioner had 
not presented English language translations of his foreign language documents in accordance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3).1 The Director's decision on motion further indicated that because 
the Petitioner had not provided proper English language translations, "all evidence submitted fails to 
be considered as probative and will not be considered." The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
Our review of the record indicates that the Petitioner 's motion before the Director included properly 
certified English language translations of his foreign language documents in compliance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) . The Director's decision on motion should have considered these 
translated documents , as well as the letters of support and other evidence that were not in a foreign 
language. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision "did not consider all probative 
evidence" and the record supports this conclusion. Because the Director's decision did not consider 
the arguments and evidence presented by the Petitioner, we remand this proceeding to the Director for 
a new decision addressing the merits of the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
1 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) . 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 12, 2023 In Re: 26876655 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § 115 3(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a bachelor of commerce degree and approximately 20 years of work experience as 
an accountant, auditor, financial controller, and entrepreneur. At the time of filinr, he indicated that 
he was employed as a senior accounting manager for I a pharmaceutical 
products distributor, in H-lB nonimmigrant status. In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner 
is the founder/president of two U.S. companies operating in the pharmaceutical industry. The 
Petitioner indicates that he intends to continue working in the United States as an entrepreneur in this 
industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet four of the criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) 
based on evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
distinguished reputation, and evidence that he had commanded a high salary in relation to others in 
the field. The Director concluded that the record did not support the Petitioner's claims that he could 
meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires evidence of his membership in 
associations which require outstanding achievements, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
evidence of original contributions of major significance in the field. Accordingly, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
On appeal, 1 the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that the previously 
submitted evidence was insufficient to satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not address or dispute the Director's finding that he had not established eligibility 
under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As the Petitioner provides no 
evidence or arguments addressing this criterion, we consider this issue to be waived and will not 
farther discuss it. See Matter ofR-A-M-25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a 
1 The Petitioner's appeal consists of the Form T-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, a cover letter, a copy of the Director's 
decision, and a brief statement identifying the basis for an appeal. The Petitioner indicated on the Form T-290B that he 
would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to this office within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal. The record does 
not reflect the Petitioner's subsequent submission of a brief or evidence in support of this appeal filed on February 13, 
2023. 
2 
filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also 
Sepulveda v. US. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005) (citing United States v. 
Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, 
and that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements 
based on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment of dues 
or fees do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that his 
membership in the I O I chapter of The Entrepreneurs' Organization (EO) satisfies he 
requirements of this criterion. 2 
The Petitioner's original submission included evidence ofhis membership in EO, copies ofe-mails he 
exchanged with EO in connection with his application, and information from the association's website 
which explains its purpose and mission, the membership application process, and the minimum 
qualifications required for membership. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
provided a letter froml I an attomel and managing partner who serves as membership 
chair for thel IEO chapter. I indicates that she interviewed the Petitioner as part 
of his membership application process. 
EO is described as "a global, peer-to-peer network ofmore than 14,000+ influential business owners." 
To qualify for membership, a prospective member must apply with evidence that (1) they are a 
founder, co-founder, owner or controlling shareholder of a company, and (2) their company has gross 
income of more than US$ I million annually. Prospective members that own venture backed 
companies must provided evidence of funding ($2 million in privately raised funds or $5 million in 
publicly raised funds) and evidence that they employ at least 10 full-time workers. Applicants who 
meet the membership requirements are interviewed before a decision is made on their applications. 
In her letter, I I asserts that, based on her position as membership chair ofthel IEO 
chapter, she "can attest that the membership qualification requires aspiring members to have 
extraordinary ability as business owners, as demonstrated by the qualifications and the invitation 
2 The Petitioner does not pursue his previous claim that his position as a voluntary board member fo~-~-----' 
a community development fund and business accelerator, is a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 
I process that follows the application." She emphasizes that "EO does not allow membership to every 
person running a company or corporation," and states the minimum revenue requirements provided 
on the EO website. I I also highlights the required interview, noting that it allows the 
opportunity to "explore the applicants' interest in joining EO" and to ensure an aspiring member would 
be "a good fit for the organization." She notes that"[o ]nly after the interview will the local EO chjpterl 
determine whether to accept and invite the applicant into EO as an official member." Finally,Istates that the Petitioner was invited to join because he met the "extraordinary requirements" 
and "demonstrated a commitment to the mission of EO." 
The Director acknowledged and discussed the documentation addressed above but determined that it 
was insufficient to establish that EO requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in the field as required by the plain language of the regulation. The 
Director emphasized the lack of verifiable evidence such as the association's bylaws or similar 
governing documents. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted sufficient verifiable 
evidence to establish that his membership in EO satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner has correctly asserted that admission as a member in EO is not based on achieving a 
certain level of education, a minimum amount of professional experience, employment in a specific 
occupation or payment of dues alone. Although memberships based solely on these factors will 
generally not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), it does not automatically follow that 
associations with a higher bar for admission necessarily satisfy all elements of this criterion. 
Here, the record reflects that any individual who is a founder, owner or controlling shareholder of a 
company with gross annual income of $1 million meets the minimum requirements for membership 
in EO. While this revenue requirement indicates a certain level of achievement and limits the number 
of business owners who are eligible for consideration, there is no indication that it is an achievement 
that is "judged by recognized national or international experts" as part ofthe decision-making process. 
Further,! Iindicated that the interview process ensures that an aspiring member is a "good fit" 
for the association, but the record does not establish what factors are considered other than 
demonstrating a dedication to the association's mission, which appears unrelated to a determination 
that an individual has "outstanding achievements" in their discipline or field. While the record reflects 
that the "local chapter" makes membership decisions, there is no description of the decision-making 
process. The information provided on the EO website does not identify what other factors may be 
considered during that process and does not indicate who ultimately makes membership decisions and 
whether those individuals are recognized national or international experts in the business field. 
Accordingly, we agree that there is insufficient verifiable evidence regarding EO's membership 
requirements and admission processes to demonstrate that the Petitioner's membership in this 
association satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that (1) they performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an 
4 
organization or establishment, and (2) the organization or establishment, or the relevant department or 
division, has a distinguished reputation. The Director determined, without discussion ofthe evidence, 
that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion based on the documentation included with his initial 
submission. We conclude that the record contains insufficient evidence to support the Director's 
conclusion. 
In a cover letter that accom anied the initial submission the Petitioner stated that he served in a critical 
role for both.__ ______________________ __. The Petitioner submitted 
letters from persons able to attest to his performance in a critical role with both companies. However, 
the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that either of these organizations has a 
distinguished reputation, such as media reports or rankings, industry awards or any other relevant 
independent evidence that would establish the companies' reputation or standing in the field or 
industry. The Director erred by making a favorable determination without such evidence. Accordingly, 
we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. The 
Petitioner provided copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for 2016 and 2017, along with comparative salary 
data sufficient to demonstrate that his salary was high in relation to other similarly employed workers 
in his field. Accordingly, this criterion has been met. 
However, based on the foregoing discussion of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), the Petitioner has satisfied only one ofthe ten criteria and therefore has not met the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 18, 2023 In Re: 20617300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in '"that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working as an actor. While we do not discuss 
each piece of evidence, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have received a major, internationally recognized award 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and to have met the following eight alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Participation as a judge of others' work; 
• Original contribution of major significance; 
• Display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions; 
• Leading or critical role; 
• High salary in relation to others; and 
• Commercial successes in performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, but that he satisfied four of the alternate regulatory criteria, lesser prizes or awards; published 
material about him and his work; participation as a judge of others' work; and display of work at 
artistic showcases or exhibitions. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv) and (vii). We agree with the 
2 
Director's determination the Petitioner meets three ofthe regulatory criteria; however, we do not agree 
the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner met the criterion for published material about him and his 
work. We reserve consideration of the evidence submitted for published material in our review of the 
totality of the material in the final merits determination set out in Kazarian. 
After determining that the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. Based on an evaluation of the totality of the evidence, the Director 
concluded that the record did not show the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and 
did not demonstrate that he is at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has received a major, internationally recognized award 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and that he satisfies additional criteria relating to original 
contribution of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has already shown that he satisfies the minimum 
requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the requisite initial evidence has been submitted, we will evaluate whether the record demonstrates, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that the Petitioner's 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine ifthe petitioner's successes are sufficient to demonstrate he has extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. In this petition, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility as a person of extraordinary ability. 
The Director concluded the evidence was insufficient to establish that he enjoyed sustained national 
or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. The Director 
considered the totality of the evidence, including the Petitioner's acting roles in award winning films, 
the awards and scholarshi s for his music therapy practice; his lead 
acting role in the production,~-------------~Children's Hospital; his work 
with other well-known organizations for advertising campaigns; his song I I being voted 
number one at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart onl in 2015; his 
judging activities at the 2018, 2019, and 2020 International Festivals! Iheld inl I 
published articles about the Petitioner; and his ski I Is and work described in letters of recommendation 
from his colleagues. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director abused its discretion in its final merits determination, 
and that his "resume and track record of success has proven that he has sustained the level of 
extraordinary international and national acclaim." The Petitioner emphasizes the Jury Prize for best 
film at the 2017 International Festival I I for which he was recognized for his acting; his 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing that objectively 
meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 
being selected from over four thousand applicants for a lead acting role for anl !advertising 
campaign; his lead acting role with the I I commercials for the video game developer,I I and articles discussing his work. 
The Petitioner is described as an Iranian born Swedish actor, singer, songwriter, and music therapist 
for individuals with disabilities and special needs. The record shows he attained a bachelor's degree 
in music therapy from I I University atl Iin 2014, earning scholarships for his 
academic work in music therapy. As a distraction to his pain from a car accident and anxiety, the 
Petitioner explains taking acting lessons and later earning acting roles for commercials and films. 
The Petitioner performed a lead acting role as a visually impaired person in the short film, I I 
.____ _.I and attributes earning the role because of his music background and his connection with the 
disability community having worked with clients who had visual impairments. The film was awarded 
the Jury Prize for best film at the 2017 International Festival! lheld inl land was 
nominated for best film at the 2017 I I Festival in India. The Petitioner was recognized as 
an actor on the Jury Prize for best film and was offered a judge role for subsequent International 
Festivals! Ifor 2018, 2019, and 2020. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has acted in additional roles for the following: the public service 
announcement production.I I which helped raised more than eight million 
dollars for children's visual health atl IChildren's Hospital; the film, I I which 
earned a cinematography award in 2017; the short film, I lwhich was shown at film festivals in 
India, Italy, and Egypt; the role of I I video game commercials; and 
commercials for well-known companies, such asl I. The Petitioner 
has also been recognized in a few publications for his acting roles. The Petitioner emphasizes his 
career as a singer and songwriter, including his winning second place for singing at a Swedish talent 
competitionj Iat the age of 17, and his songI II being voted number one 
at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart on Iin 2015. 
The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's personal and professional 
achievements rise to a level ofa "career ofacclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 2 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner received an award, the Jury Prize for best film at the 2017 
International Festival! Iheld inl IThe Jury Prize for best film certificate lists the 
Petitioner as one of three actors in the film, and a letter froml I program director of 
International Festival I I Festival, states the Petitioner won the Jury Prize "for his acting 
performance in I lincluding best scenario, best film and direction." Details about the 
festival awards were submitted withI I letter indicating the festival received "700 films 
of 90 different nationalities." 
The record indicates the International Festival~! ----~I recognizes films with a specific focus, 
raising awareness for individuals with disabilities. An article in Kayhan Life International describes 
the film festival, I 
The record includes media 
2 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
4 I 
publications showing the Petitioner was recognized for his role in the film and his receipt of the award. 
However, the publications in which some of these articles appear relate to raising disability awareness 
rather than to the Petitioner's field of acting. Other articles appear in publications for which the record 
lacks evidence of circulation and readership. While indicative of some degree of recognition, the 
record lacks sufficient evidence to establish these articles demonstrate the requisite level of acclaim 
within the Petitioner's field. 
The record also includes letters of recommendation from colleagues recognizing the Petitioner acting 
in the film and his receipt of the award. However, the letters only make a brief mention of the film 
and its award, and most of the individuals writing the letters do not indicate whether they were 
associated with the films or how the] have knowledge of the Petitioner's acting in the films. 3 For 
instance, a letter from I a film producer, states, "I came across [the Petitioner's] 
extraordinary acting talent in the short film I I .... As a producer, I have worked with 
several Academy Award-winning [sic] actors and I must say that [the Petitioner's] extraordinary talent 
promises a bright future, resulting in many more awards in the acting field." While acknowledging 
the Petitioner's receipt of the award and his abilities as an actor, these letters do not attest to the 
significance of the award within the field of acting. Further.I I characterization of the 
Petitioner having "a bright future" with "many more awards" does not indicate the Petitioner is 
currently at the top of his field. A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing; a petition 
cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner or beneficiary becomes eligible under a new 
set of facts. Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). The record does not show that 
based on his acting in l I and his receipt of the Jury Prize award at the 201 7 International 
Festival I lthat he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the acting field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner claims he played lead acting roles in other films that have either received, or been 
nominated for, awards. The Petitioner's letter explains that the film I I earned a European 
Cinematography award and that the film,I Iwas shown at film festivals in India, Italy, and Egypt 
and was nominated for awards. To corroborate his claims, the record includes the films' advertising 
materials indicating his leading role, as well as letters of recommendation briefly mentioning his acting 
in the films. However, the advertising material and letters do not demonstrate the Petitioner's acclaim 
at the national or international level based on his role in these films. The record does not show that 
the Petitioner having a leading acting role in these films demonstrated his receiving significant 
attention and as a result, has not demonstrated he is at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes his career as a singer and songwriter, including his winning second 
place for singing at a Swedish talent competition,~-----~ at the age of 17. While the 
Petitioner provided a description of his winning second place, the record does not include independent, 
objective evidence supporting his claims. Letters of recommendation indicate the Petitioner having 
placed second at the competition, however, the letters are from people who do not appear to have 
direct knowledge of, or had any association with, the competition. The Petitioner also claims his song 
I I was voted number one at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart on I I 
~in 2015. However, the record does not include independent, objective evidence to support the 
Petitioner's claims or to provide details of this award. Moreover, the Petitioner does not explain how 
3 All letters submitted by the Petitioner were reviewed and considered, even if not every letter is discussed herein. 
5 
recognition for his singing and songwriting abilities demonstrates acclaim in acting, his field of 
endeavor. 
As such, the evidence for the Petitioner's awards, and for the awards received by films he acted in, do 
not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner received an award commensurate with those among the 
top of his field of acting. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner submitted four articles related to his work as an actor. Two 
ofthe articles do not include an author,I Ipublished in Voyage Los Angeles andc=J 
.__________ ___. published in Persian Heritage. Without an author, it is uncertain whether 
the articles are marketin material or inde endent, ob·ective ublished articles about the Petitioner. 
The article entitled,'------------------------~ published in 
Kayhan Life International is about the Petitioner in his field of acting, however, the record lacks 
evidence demonstrating the prestige and scope of the publication. As such, the record is insufficient 
to establish that the Petitioner has enjoyed national or international acclaim based on these 
publications. 
The record also includes an article published in Abilities.com, IL----r-----,__ ____ __J 
._____________ ___. which indicates the author as I However, the 
article is written in the first person and does not reference the Petitioner by name. Since the article 
does not include the Petitioner's name, we are unable to determine that it is about the Petitioner or that 
it demonstrates his recognition within the field. A letter from the Petitioner's counsel explains that 
Abilities.com is a United States on-line newspaper founded in 2005 with a daily circulation of 239,000, 
and highlights literature, film, adaptive arts, dance, and inclusive recreation in the disability 
community. However, the Petitioner did not submit independent, objective evidence to support these 
claims. Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 
534 n.2 {BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503,506 {BIA 1980)). Counsel's 
statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence. With the article, the 
Petitioner submitted a printout summary of the 2018 Ability Expo, explaining it as a multi-city event 
dedicated to educating and improving the lives of Americans with disabilities. However, the 
connection of this summary to Abilities.com is not clear, as it does not mention the website or explain 
their relation. 
Although the media submitted recognizes the Petitioner's work as an actor, many of the submitted 
articles were not supported by independent evidence establishing the publications' prestige, 
circulation, or other factors indicative of national or international acclaim .. 
For the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others in the field of acting, the record 
shows he was a U.S. selection judge and a panel judge for the 2018 International Festival I I I I The record does not explain what level of candidates the Petitioner judged other than the 
film festival's program director stating that the Petitioner would "be part of the judge panel with the 
duties of watching and judging films" that paiiicipate in the festival. The Petitioner's judging 
experience is a relevant consideration as to whether the evidence is indicative of his national or 
international acclaim. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. Although the record shows that he was also 
asked to be part of the judge panels for the 2019 and 2020 International Festivals! Ithe 
record does not include evidence that the Petitioner participated as judge for those film festivals. 
6 
While the Petitioner's selection and participation on the panel of judges for International Festivals I lis commendable, the record shows the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work 
of others is limited to the one judging instance. Also, the record does not demonstrate how his judging 
experience compares to others at the top of the field, that the judge panel included nationally acclaimed 
actors, or that the judges received significant recognition in the field as a result of their participation. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage at 
the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record shows that the Petitioner's work was displayed at art exhibitions, including his acting in 
I I being shown at the 2017 International Festival I Iinl lthe 2017I I in India, and the 2017 I IFilm Festival in Belgium. We acknowledge 
that the film was awarded the Jury Prize, and the award recognized the Petitioner for his acting in the 
film; however, the record does not show that this festival, or the other festivals where the film was 
shown, were considered prestigious or garnered attention in the field of acting in a manner consistent 
with national or international acclaim. The record also includes advertising material for other films, 
specifically was shown at the 2017 I IFilm Festival and at the 2018 
._______ ___. Film Festival, and the film,I Iwas shown at film festivals in India, Italy, and 
Egypt and nominated for awards. Besides the Petitioner's assertions, the record does not include 
independent, objective evidence describing the films, the Petitioner's role in the films, details of the 
film festivals, or the award nominations. The Petitioner did not demonstrate his acting performances 
in films shown at the film festivals garnered him with national or international acclaim. For instance, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating his acting brought praise from critics in his field, 
drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or that his acting in the films showed that he "is one of that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Regarding original contributions of major significance in the field and for leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, we will address the evidence for these together. The Petitioner claims 
his acting played a critical role for the I I commercials and contributed to the success of 
the video game. The Petitioner also asserts that his acting role for anl !commercial campaign 
played a critical role in the economic and business success of the talent agency that represents him, 
,________ __, The record includes letters of recommendation from his talent agency and other 
individuals in the acting industry who worked with the Petitioner on commercials, advertising 
campaigns, and films. However, the record does not include evidence showing the Petitioner's acting 
in the I Iadvertising campaign, the I I commercials, or other commercials and 
advertising campaigns earned him national or international acclaim for his field. 
Regarding the commercials, the Petitioner submitted two letters from persons who 
worked on the commercials . ._______ __, a film and commercial producer, and I I a 
cinematographer and director, both acknowledge that the Petitioner's acting in the commercials helped 
with nominations for three awards, winning one award, and success with online views and product 
sales. The letter from the producer of theI I commercials states, "I produced I ID commercials forl land was casting for top of the field and 
extraordinary talents to fill the role oflead and critical rose of I I... Thanks to [the Petitioner's] 
extraordinary [sic] acting performance,! !commercial was nominated for [three] awards 
and came away with a win. I I was so pleased with [the Petitioner's] extraordinary acting 
skills and the outcome of the commercial and its results in sales and millions of views that they decided 
7 
to hire [the Petitioner] and film [eight] additional commercials." Although both letters speak generally 
to the success of the commercials, they do not show to what extent that the Petitioner's acting in the 
commercials earned him national or international acclaim. For instance, the letters and other evidence 
in the record do not provide further explanation of the award, the award nominations, the Petitioner's 
recognition for the award and nominations, details of the online viewership, or the videos' product 
sales. Without farther evidence showing that the Petitioner's acting contributed to the commercials' 
successes of viewership, product sales, and awards, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's acting in the commercials brought him national or international acclaim in his field. 
We note that the letters similarly express the Petitioner's "extraordinary ability" in acting and 
"amazing skills by showcasing characters and speaking [seven] languages." Both letters use identical 
language describing the Petitioner's acting record, "[The Petitioner] ... has won the Jury Prize in 
Ihas acted in major commercials for brands such as: I I 
Ito name a few. He has also guest-starred on the I I on NVC and 
.______________ ___.[ proving that he is on the top of his field." The use of identical 
language and phrasing across the letters suggest that the language in the letters is not the authors' own. 
Cf. Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility 
determination in asylum proceedings based in part on the similarity of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. 
U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (concluding that an immigration judge may 
reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is 
the common source). Because the letters appear to have been drafted by someone other than the 
purported authors, the letters possess little credibility or probative value. In evaluating the evidence, 
the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. The Petitioner offers other letters of recommendation generally 
referencing his acting in the I I online commercial videos, and those letters also use the 
identical language or phrasing described above. Therefore, the similarly worded letters offer little 
credibility or probative value. 
A letter froml ICEO and founder of.________ __. emphasizes that the Petitioner's 
multi-lingual skills and multi-cultural appearance helped him earn his acting role for an I 
advertising campaign, as well as many other acting roles for major brands, includingl.--~------11I I The record also includes photographs depicting the Petitioner 
in advertising campaigns for companies such asI I The letter states that the Petitioner hel~pe-d-th_e_a_g-en_c_y-,-,g-a-in-ec_o_n_o_m-ic_a_ll_y_a_n_d_h-av_e_a-[s-i~c] 
strong reputation with billion-dollar companies likel 1-... [the Petitioner] was chosen as the 
actor ... performing the lead and critical role in the advertisement, proving that he is an actor in the 
[sic] top-of-his field." Although the letter states the Petitioner is at the top of his field, it does not 
explain how his acting in the I I and other advertising campaigns shows his national or 
international acclaim. While his acting helped his talent agency gain financial and reputation benefits, 
the record does not show that his acting in the campaigns demonstrate him being at the top of his field. 
Another letter from I I CEO and founder of video production company,~!---~ 
similarly explains hiring the Petitioner to act in a pharmaceutical company's commercial because of 
his "unique talent of speaking several languages" and his ability to help the company produce videos 
in seven languages "that can reach out to all minority groups and patients in the United States." Also, 
a letter froml Ia casting director and owner ofl Iexplains hiring the 
8 
I Petitioner for the pharmaceutical campaign because of his "international look that made him the 
perfect actor to fill the role of the [d]octor." A letter from I I a cinematographer and 
founder ofl !Entertainment, details hiring the Petitioner for a lead acting role for Children's 
HospitalI I fundraising campaign because of his "extraordinary acting talents and u,.,·.........,.,....., 
skills ... to portray so many diverse characters with different language skills". And a letter from Ia film producer, explains hiring the Petitioner for a lead acting role for the film.__ ___ ___. 
uses wording similar to the other recommendation letters that the Petitioner has "extraordinary talents, 
diverse creativity and diverse cultural language skills" who "can act and portray ... many different 
characters from difterent countries and cultures." As previously explained, although the Petitioner's 
language skills and appearance have helped him earn acting roles, the letters do not elaborate on the 
Petitioner's acting and to what extent his unique acting skills have earned him national or international 
acclaim in his field or show that he is at the top of his field. 
The record contains evidence related to the Petitioner's compensation for his work as an actor. For 
example, a letter describing future projects notes that the Petitioner would be paid above SAG-AFTRA 
acting performance rates, as well as pay statements and checks from various commercials. However, 
the Petitioner does not explain how the evidence demonstrates acclaim within the field or recognition 
within the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. 
See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 19, 2023 In Re: 27715487 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
Petitioner did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and six subsequent motions. The matter 
is again before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements ofa motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our appeal decision. In support of the motion, 
the Petitioner relies on a statement , and no other evidence , asserting his eligibility as a martial artist 
of extraordinary ability. While the statement asserts that he meets four of the evidentiary criteria, it 
does not explain or point to any factual, legal, or policy errors in our most recent decision ofFebruary 
10, 2023. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) , (ii). Therefore , we will only consider new evidence to the extent that it 
pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the prior motion. Because the Petitioner has not 
established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to reopen our 
prior decision. 
In addition, the Petitioner's contentions in his current motion merely reargue facts and issues we have 
already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board 
decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition remains 
denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 24, 2023 In Re: 27437533 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims employment as a ostdoctoral researcher in the field ofmolecular biolo at the 
~partment of Agriculture's.__ _______ ..,....____________ --,-_____. m 
L__JIllinois. He received his Ph.D. in science from.__ ____________ _. niversity. 
He indicates his intention to continue his work in the same field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related 
to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi) and concluded that he satisfied only two 
criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate his 
service as a judge of the work of others and his authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his 
original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field by peer reviewing 
manuscripts for professional journals and that he has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications, including Microbial Biotechnology, Biomass Conversion and Biorefine,y, and 
Bioresource Technology Reports. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has also made original contributions of major significance 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence submitted in 
support of the criterion. 1 We will discuss the evidence submitted in support of this criterion below. 
1 The Petitioner did not claim eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (vii), (viii), (ix), or (x) before the Director 
or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these seven criteria on appeal, we consider 
these issues to be abandoned. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing 
party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 
401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); 
Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs' claims 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In his personal statements, the Petitioner explained that atl lhe is working on the development 
of novel antimicrobial molecules, most recently phage-based endolysin technology, to target bacterial 
contamination in biorefineries in a manner that will avoid antimicrobial resistance. He claims that he 
has made three original contributions of major significance in the field, as evidenced by his published 
research, citation record, letters from experts in the field, and other evidence. Specifically, he 
highlighted the following areas of research: (1) using alternatives to antibiotics to control bacterial 
infection with probiotics; (2) developing novel strain-specific antimicrobials that have a lower chance 
of promoting resistance; and (3) identifying novel molecules that enhance the effect of present 
antibiotics. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, point to the citation of his 
work by others, and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do not 
demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. 
Two letters from the Petitioner's supervisor atl ~iscuss his work on antimicrobial peptides for 
use in the biofoel industry and the development of novel probiotics, and praise his bioinformatic 
expertise. 2 Specifically, his supervisor states that the Petitioner identified a peptide with significant 
utility in preventing microbial growth in biorefineries and several novel antimicrobial endolysin genes 
that show significant potential to control infections. He provides that the Petitioner has identified 
numerous genes in the genome sequences of refinery contaminants that can potentially be used to 
produce unique antimicrobial compounds. Further, he "has made significant progress" on the use of 
a novel pore-forming protein for biorefining contamination control and has collaborated on the 
development of a yeast surface display system that may be used in biorefineries "in the next few 
years." 
Letters from two colleagues at I I Agricultural Research Services praise his "high technical 
prowess" in protein purification, chromatography, cell cloning, cell imaging, cell assays, and 
bioinformatics. They provide that his 2019 article I II I regarding a method for mining metagenomics for enzymes to improve conversion 
of biomass to sugars at a reasonable cost, was featured in a review article published in Biomass 
Conversion and Biorefinery. 
2 While we discuss a sampling of the letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the director ofl !University's Laboratory of Renewable 
Resources Engineering (LORRE), where he was previously employed as a visiting research associate. 
The director states that Petitioner made "outstanding contributions" to the process engineering of 
converting corn stover (cornstalks) to slurries and to sugars that are fermented to ethanol, making "a 
major step forward" in reducing costs by decreasing the amounts of enzymes required for the 
conversion steps. He also asserts that the Petitioner's research has "influrced others in his field," 
and provides that research teams froml~---~pniversity andl University have used his 
research to corroborate their own findings, respectively, on rumen enzymes and increased sheer stress 
and energy consumption during biomass processing at high load. The letter, however, does not 
sufficiently detail in what ways the Petitioner has advanced the state of research in his field or 
elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider field beyond the teams of 
researchers who have directly cited his work on these topics. While the record indicates that other 
researchers have built upon the Petitioner's research, the evidence does not establish that the field 
views the Petitioner's work as a contribution of major significance. 
Although the above letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings and make broad statements 
regarding their significance in the field, they do not contain sufficient information detailing how his 
work has been of major significance. In fact, some letters hypothesize on the effect of the Petitioner's 
research at some undetermined time in the future. For example, in his above letters, the Petitioner's 
supervisor atl lopined that his work "has provided new key tools" for overcoming antibiotic 
resistance in industrial processes and "has potential" to develop broad spectrum antimicrobial 
I compounds Ifor use in other medical applications. A letter from the CEO ofI I
states that the Petitioner's work on the development of novel phage-based antibiotics to 
be used in biorefineries to overcome the exploitation of current antibiotics holds potential, in the near 
term, to be available to bioethanol refineries to mitigate contamination. 
Here, the letters do not show that the significant nature of his research has already been realized or has 
been implemented or utilized in a manner consistent with major significance. The letters considered 
above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research studies 
without describing a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of molecular 
biology, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific 
field. 3 The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has 
had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But this evidence 
does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of molecular biology rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 204.5(h)(4)). 
4 
shown that his findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of[his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "4 
The Petitioner also provided evidence from I I showing that two of his articles were 
ranked among the top 10% ( and two others were ranked in the top 20%) when grouped by academic 
field (in this case, biology and biochemistry),5 and year of publication. He also submitted a paper 
published in the journal Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of three that should be 
used to evaluate individual researchers in the natural and life sciences for purposes of fonding and 
promotion or hiring decisions. 6 The authors ofthe paper state that "publications which are among the 
10% most cited publications in their subject area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that 
"the top 10% based excellence indicators" should be given "the highest weight when comparing the 
scientific performance of single researchers." However, this evidence does not establish that metrics 
that may be suitable for comparing applicants for academic research positions and grants are indicators 
that a researcher has made contributions of major significance to his or her field. 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution ofmajor significance in the field. A more appropriate analysis, for 
example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly 
cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. Highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance," as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. We also acknowledge that the Petitioner provided evidence that four of his articles were 
published in journals with high rankings based on their impact factor. However, a publication's high 
ranking or impact is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the 
influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's research impacted the field, or 
establish a contribution of major significance in the field. That context must be provided by other 
evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the four articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution ofmajor significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted samples of partial research articles that cited to his work. As 
discussed, the Petitioner has demonstrated that others have cited to his work in their journal papers. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 Although the Petitioner highlights the field of biology and biochemistry, it appears that the field of molecular biology 
and genetics may more accurately reflect the Petitioner's work. 
6 On appeal he also submits an additional article, "Measuring the Impact ofYour Publications," from Tischlibrary.tuft:s.edu, 
which suggests that this metric is one of several that should be used "[ w ]hen preparing for tenure." 
5 
However, the mere citation ofwork by others does not automatically show "major significance." Here, 
the partial articles do not reflect the impact of the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to his work. For instance, as the Director noted, the Petitioner provided a partial 
article entitled, 'I I(Nature Reviews Cancer), in 
which the authors cite to his 2013 Journal o_fMedicinal Chemistry article.7 However, the article does 
not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers, of which there 
are more than 140, nor does the article credit his work for being majorly significant. 
The submitted research articles reference the Petitioner's work as evidence of recent research, and, 
while the articles indicate that the authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well as 
the work ofthe other cited scientists, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views his 
published findings as original contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not show 
that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance," as required by this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation that his publications have been cited in two review 
articles, and submits a screenshot of a page from the website ofthe University! Ititled 
This evidence indicates that review articles are "an ~-----------------~ attempt to ... sum up the current state of the research on a particular topic" and may identify "the 
main people working in a field" and "recent ma·or advances and discoveries." One of the submitted 
review articles titled ' 
~----------------------------------~(Biomass 
Conversion and Biorefinery ), cites to the Petitioner's 2019 International Journal of Biological 
Macromolecule article among at least 208 other articles. While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears to be an active field ofresearch, we cannot 
determine that every publication cited in a review article is indicative of majorly significant. 
On appeal, counsel again references one of our non-precedent decisions concerning a scientific 
researcher who petitioned under this classification. As noted by the Director, this decision was not 
published as precedent and therefore does not bind U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the decision although we will not discuss it separately. Counsel 
emphasizes that the referenced non-precedent decision demonstrates that we have previously 
determined that "dozens" of citations "are good evidence of a petitioner's contributions of major 
significance." However, the non-precedent decision also highlights the fact that we placed significant 
weight on the statements of experts who clearly described how the petitioner's scientific contributions 
were both original and ofmajor significance in their field. The expert opinion letters submitted in this 
matter did not contain sufficient probative analysis regarding the major significance ofthe Petitioner's 
contributions. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that his research has been funded by the government oflndia. Within 
his response to the Director's request for evidence he submitted documentation that in 2013 his 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
proposal for a spore probiotic supplement for farm animals received incubator funding from the 
"Ministry of MSME." Receiving fonding to conduct research is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of itself. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving the grant is reflective 
of his past work's major significance, or that his research conducted with the grant resulted in a 
contribution of major significance in the field. The record does not contain any evidence illustrating 
how the funding reflected the importance of the Petitioner's contributions, or the research results of 
the Ministry ofMSME funding and whether they are majorly significant in the field. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting ofthe citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow molecular biologists and other experts, 
establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a 
contribution of major significance in the field of molecular biology. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and published his work, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 27, 2023 In Re: 22669626 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the sciences. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence ofa one­
time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 1 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Beneficiary 
met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of scholarly articles, but determined that she did not 
satisfy the awards, membership, published material, and original contributions criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets the membership, published material, and original 
contributions criteria. 3 After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's position with the Petitioner as a radiation oncology 
physician meets this criterion. The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that its employment 
relationship with the Beneficiary constitutes "membership" in an association or that her position 
required outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also provided an email stating that the Beneficiary was "invited" to become a member 
of the International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group, but the record does not indicate that she 
had actually been admitted to membership in this organization at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). Regardless, the evidence presented does not establish that the International 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally id. (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers should evaluate all the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine ifa petitioner has established, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, 
the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Petitioner does not claim to meet the awards criterion on appeal. 
2 
Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
In addition the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's membership in the._____...-__---,., 
------~1=·n~t"'"""ihe United Kingdom (UK), the Pediatric Radiation Oncology Society, the.L..;-----; 
1-----.-----------' Group, the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation Oncology, the.__ _ __. 
._______.Medical Society, and thel lmeet this criterion. While the 
Petitioner provided general information about these organizations, it did not submit their constitution 
or bylaws, or other documentation showing their official membership requirements. In addition to not 
demonstrating that the aforementioned organizations require outstanding achievements of their 
members, the submitted documentation does not show that their admission to membership is judged 
by recognized national or international experts. 
For example, regarding the Beneficiary's membership in theO the Petitioner submitted only pages 
from Wikipedia about the organization. As there are no assurances about the reliability of the content 
from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia will be accorded no evidentiary 
weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukase~, 540I F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 4 In addition, even 
ifwe were to consider this evidence, it indicates tha membershi is conferred u on "doctors who 
have passed the examinations for the diploma of membership of the of 
the United Kingdom, which are held jointly by all of the UK,_____~--~--____. The 
Petitioner has not shown that passing the requiredc=] medical examinations rises to the level of 
"outstanding achievements," or that the Beneficiary's admission was judged by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary's "fellowship" in the~meets this criterion. The 
Petitioner resented a certificate stating that the Beneficiary was "admitted a Fellow of the I I 
The Petitioner, however, has not offered evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary's.__ _ _.fellowship required outstanding achievements or that her admission was judged 
by recognized national or international experts. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiar 's two-week fellowshi with the I,___ ____. 
University r------------'-'-""-.>..!=........,,._._-~ _________ _JFellowship to 
the UniversityL _________ -r---,_____J, and "Two-Year Fellowship Program in 
Pediatric and Adult Proton Therapy" at.__ _ ___,satisfy this criterion. These fellowships represent 
temporary medical training opportunities rather than membership in associations in the field. For 
4 See also information from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer, accessed on July 24, 2023, and 
copy incorporated into the record ofproceeding, which indicates that Wikipedia's content is subject to the following general 
disclaimer: 
WTKTPEDTA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information .... 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
3 
instance, the Petitioner provided information about th ._____________ ____,Fellowship" 
which states: 'The goal ofthe program is to develop clinical expertise in the management of pediatric 
malignancies and technical expertise in the application ofproton therapy. Fellows will be expected to 
complete a proton therapy related research project ...." Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary's fellowships required outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. For example, regarding her._____________ ____, 
Fellows~ip, the retitioner submitted information indicating that "fellowships are open to consultants 
and post Specialist Registrar Clinical Oncologists who are members or fellows of the Din 
good standing, resident in the United Kingdom, and in active clinical practice at the time of the 
award/visit." Additionally, with respect to the Beneficiary's "Two-Year Fellowship Program in 
Pediatric and Adult Proton Therapy," the Petitioner provided information from University I I 
stating: 
The pre-requisite for the fellowship is successful completion of an ACGME accredited 
residency in Radiation Oncology by the start date ofthe fellowship .... The application 
must include a current Curriculum Vitae and a one page personal statement articulating 
the candidate's interest in the fellowship. Three letters of recommendation from 
clinical and/or research mentors are also required, including one from the fellow's 
residency director. Exceptional international applicants who have completed a 
radiation oncology residency in the United Kingdom, Norway, Australia, Singapore, 
and Canada will be considered provided they have a valid U.S. medical license, or 
ECFMG certification for training outside the U.S. (requires completion of USMLE 1 
and USMLE 2 exams). ECFMG certification is also required for visa sponsorship, if 
applicable. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the aforementioned criteria (such as completing an oncology 
residency, active clinical practice, or medical licensure) rise to the level of "outstanding" 
achievements. Without evidence indicating that the Beneficiary's memberships require outstanding 
achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international 
experts, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted scholarly research articles and reviews written 
or edited by the Beneficiary in International Neurology, Radiology and Radiotherapy of 
Craniopharyngioma, and BMJ Clinical Review. 5 The Petitioner also resented an article authored b 
the Beneficiary, entitled L-------1---------,_ __-,,--__________ __J 
which was posted on the website of._________ ___.News. 6 The aforementioned medical 
articles discuss subject matter other than the Beneficiary. As this material is not "about" the 
5 The regulations contain a separate and distinct criterion relating to "authorship of scholarly articles" in professional 
publications at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), a criterion that the Beneficiary has akeady satisfi,....ed_.______ __, 
6 The Petitioner has not presented evidence (such as readership statistics) showing that.__ ______ ___.News' 
website is a form of major media. 
4 
Beneficiary, it does not constitute published material about her for purposes of this criterion. The 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "published material about the alien." 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article about the Beneficia m agazine, entitled 
" The author of this article is L...----------------------------~not identified as required by this criterion and the material appears in the "Advertising Feature" section 
of the magazine. Marketing materials created for promoting one's services are generally not 
considered sufficient to meet this criterion. 7 Nor did the Petitioner offer comparative circulation 
statistics or other evidence to demonstrate thatl !Magazine is a professional or major trade 
publication or other type of major media. 8 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that the Beneficiary discussed "Breast 
Cancer Treatment Options" on the.__________ _.News Morning Show's health segment. 
The Petitioner has not shown that this televised segment was about the Beneficiary as opposed to 
breast cancer treatment options available to Florida women. In addition, the Petitioner has not 
presented evidence (such as viewership statistics) showing that the I INews 
Morning Show is a form of major media. Without evidence that the Beneficiary has been the subject of 
material about her in professional or major trade publications or major media, the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted the Beneficiary's research articles and book 
chapters, citation evidence for her published work, and letters of support from her colleagues in the 
field. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For 
the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has a beneficiary made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 9 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence" (stating that marketing materials created for the purpose of selling a beneficiary's products or 
promoting their services are not generally considered to be published material about the beneficiary). 
8 See generally id. (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other 
major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics). 
9 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence." 
5 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's "formal training and education in proton 
beam therapy atl I' "real-life experience in both adult and pediatric proton therapy," completion 
of "a dedicated pediatric and adult proton therapy fellowship," and treatment of "more than 200 
children suffering from cancer" meet this criterion. While the evidence indicates that the Beneficiary 
is skilled in her field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her education, training, and experience 
in proton therapy constitute original scientific contributions of major significance in the field of 
radiation oncology. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary reviewed material for Oncology at a Glance 
and "has edited at least ten British Medical Journal (BMJ) Clinical Review books from 2015 to 2019 
on subjects ranging from clinical oncology, hematology, pediatrics, and obstetrics and gynecology." 
The Beneficiary's manuscript reviews and editorial service, however, were considered under the 
judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), a criterion that she has already fulfilled. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish how performing peer review or editorial work for a journal rises to the 
level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show, 
for example, how the Beneficiary's work significantly impacted or influenced the field in a major way 
beyond Oncology at a Glance or the BMJ. 
The Petitioner also indicates that the Beneficiary has published articles and conference abstracts in 
International Neurology; International Journal ofParticle Therapy; Drugs; International Journal of 
Radiation Oncology, Biology, Physics (IJROBP); Clinical Oncology; Basic Research and Clinical 
Aspects ofAdamantinomatous Craniopharyngioma; Lung Cancer; and European Journal of Cancer 
Supplements. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication of articles in well ranked journals 
and presentation of work at reputable medical conferences, such as Proceedings of the American 
Society/or Radiation Oncology 56th Annual Meeting (ASTRO), inevitably demonstrate that the field 
considers the research and work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on the field or that every article published 
in a distinguished journal or conference automatically indicates a scientific contribution of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in the aforementioned 
journals and conferences alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the Beneficiary's 
field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence 
that they were of"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The record includes the Beneficiary's Google Scholar profile showing that her research articles have 
received 73 cumulative citations. The information from Goo le Scholar further indicated that the 
Beneficiary's two hi hest cited articles, entitled' 
2007 and' 
(2015), each received 69 and 3 citations, 
~r-es_p_e_c-ti-v-el_y_. _H_e_r-n-ex_t_t_w_o_h-ig_h_e_s_t -c1-.te-d-art-ic-1-es-,-e-n-ti~tled '~-----~' (2016) and 1 I 
~I--------------~I (2017) received one citation each. 10 ._____ ____. 
10 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations for each of these individual articles were self-citations by the 
Beneficiary or her coauthors. 
6 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a beneficiary's 
research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the number of 
citations for any of the Beneficiary's published articles is commensurate with contributions of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the 
citations to the Beneficiary's articles. Nor has the Petitioner shown that these citations are unusually 
high in the Beneficiary's field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having 
been majorly significant. Without comparative statistical evidence indicating the frequency at which 
other articles in the Beneficiary's field are cited, for example, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
the number of citations received by her published and presented work is indicative of a contribution 
of major significance in the field. 
Additionally, the Petitioner points to recommendation letters from experts in the field provided in 
support of the Beneficiary. 11 These references discussed the Beneficiary's advanced radiation 
oncology training, as well her research relating to oncology and proton therapy, but their statements 
do not demonstrate that her original work is of major significance in the field. As discussed below, 
the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the 
Beneficiary has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, Dr. M-W-W-, a professor of radiation oncology at T-J-U-, stated that the Beneficiary 
"pursued specialized training in proton therapy beyond the basic requirement ofresidency training and 
has developed a rare clinical skill in a highly specialized field of proton therapy." Dr. M-W-W-
indicated that the Beneficiary completed a fellowship in pediatric and adult proton therapy at I I 
"inI I the first such program in the world." Dr. M-W-W-also noted that the Beneficiary 
has "authored original scientific research studies" published in International Journal of Particle 
Therapy" and presented at ASTRO, but she did not explain how this work has affected the field in a 
substantial way or otherwise constitutes a contribution ofmajor significance in the field. We recognize 
that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in some way in order to be accepted for 
publication, presentation, fonding, or academic credit, but not every research study that broadens 
knowledge in a particular field constitutes a contribution of major significance in that field. 
Dr. M-W-W- farther mentioned the Beneficiar 's editorial work for BMJ Clinical Review and 
authorship of a book chapter inI I The Petitioner._,_h_o_w_e_v_e_r_, h_a_s_n-ot-of_Ii_e-re-d-c1-. ta-t-io-n-in_fi_o_rm_a-t1-. o_n_o_r_o_t_h_e_r_e_v-id_e_n_c_e__, 
showing that the Beneficiary's particular book chapter constitutes an original contribution of major 
significance in proton therapy. Nor does the evidence support a determination that performing 
editorial services for BMJ Clinical Review rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in 
the field. 
In addition, Dr. S-A-, the Petitioner's medical director, stated that the Beneficiary's "research has 
helped ... refine and define the radiation tolerance of critical hearing organs such as the cochlea. The 
guidance derived from this data is critical in hearing preservation in the long-term survivors of 
childhood cancer patients helping improve their survivorship and quality of life." He indicated that 
the Beneficiary "was invited to present this work as a podium presentation at the International Pediatric 
11 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Radiation Oncology Cancer Society Conference at ~---------_.Hospital ... in D 
2017." Dr. S-A-further noted that the Beneficiary's "presentation generated the expected enthusiasm 
and has established [the Beneficiary] as an outstanding researcher," but he did not offer specific 
examples indicating that her presented findings on radiation tolerance have influenced the field of 
radiation oncology to the extent that they are of major significance in her field. 
Furthermore, Dr. B-H-, a consultant clinical oncologist at C-C-C-, asserted that the Beneficiary has 
"authored several impactful research publications and oral presentations international conferences." 
While Dr. B-H-listed examples of the Beneficiary's published and presented work, he did not 
elaborate on how her specific research and findings have been widely utilized by other radiation 
oncologists or have otherwise affected proton cancer therapies at a level indicative of contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from Drs. R-L-R-, W-P-, and N-J-. Although 
these remaining letters praise the Beneficiary's work as a radiation oncologist, they do not demonstrate 
how her contributions are "of major significance in the field." Instead, the letters reference the 
importance of the Beneficiary's works as indicated by their publication in professional journals and 
presentation at medical conferences. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through the 
Beneficiary's citation history or other evidence that her work, once published or presented, has been 
of major significance in the field. While the selection of the Beneficiary's articles in professional 
journals and conferences verifies the originality of her work, it does not necessarily reflect that her 
research and findings are considered of major significance. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Beneficiary's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient information and evidence 
demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. 14 Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
12 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence." 
13 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
8 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary 
has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. 
Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 28, 2023 In Re: 27611586 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a partner in a capital management firm, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal as 
moot. 
The Director denied the petition in November 2022. The Petitioner filed the appeal four months later, 
in March 2023. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the appeal "is filed subsequent to a timely Motion 
to Reopen." The Petitioner submits copies of documents that he had submitted in December 2022 in 
support of that motion. 
In the March 2023 appellate brief, the Petitioner states that the "appeal .. . is postmarked within 30 
days of service of the Denial," but the appeal does not include a copy of a denial notice or any other 
evidence that the Director denied the petition in February or March 2023. The Petitioner provides no 
date ofservice other than November 10, 2022, which was the date of the original decision. 1 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicate that the Director reopened the petition in 
February 2023, and therefore the November 2022 denial is no longer in effect. But there is no record 
that the Director issued any decision after that time. The Petitioner does not attach or cite to any 
decision from the reopened proceeding. As there is no evidence of a decision following the February 
2023 reopening , the proceeding appears to remain pending. Therefore , we must dismiss the appeal as 
moot, because there is no decision for the Petitioner to contest on appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 A March 2023 appeal of a November 2022 decision would be rejected as untimely under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 28, 2023 In Re: 27611613 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an assistant professor of computer science, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the Petitioner 
did not establish that he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary 
ability and that his entry will substantially benefit the United States. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act makes visas available to noncitizens: 
• who have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics 
which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation ; 
• who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
• whose entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an assistant professor and researcher in the field of computer 
science with research interests in the areas of Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) based information 
retrieval, the semantic web, and data mining. He completed his bachelor's and master's degrees in 
computer enrneering at a Chinese university and received his doctorate in computer science fromI University in 2006. The Petitioner indicates he has been employed as an assistant ~r of computer science for a community college within the City University I I 
L___J system since 2004. In separate statements, the Petitioner has expressed his intent to continue 
serving in his current faculty position as well as to start his own technology-based company that would 
rely on his research in the computer science field and expand it for commercial use. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 1 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
1 In his response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner also claimed he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires documentation ofpublished materials about the individual and their work in professional 
publications or major media. The Director determined the submitted evidence did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner 
does not contest that determination on appeal, nor has he claimed that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(vii), (ix) or (x). As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these five criteria on appeal, we consider 
them to be waived. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to 
appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005) (citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998). 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director determined the Petitioner satisfied only one of the claimed criteria, related to authorship 
of scholarly articles in professional publications, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We agree with that 
determination. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has published two articles that appeared in the 
journals Data & Knowledge Engineering and Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the Director reached unjustified 
conclusions with respect to the four remaining claimed criteria. He maintains that he satisfies at least 
three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is otherwise eligible for the classification 
sought. 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate he was the rec1p1ent of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was "excellence in the 
field" include but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors.2 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated he was submitting the following evidence in support of 
this criterion: (1) a September 2001 letter from a professor atl l(his Ph.D. advisor) inviting 
him to participate in the MLabNet 2001 Seminar to be held in Japan in October 2001, in conjunction 
with the Tokyo-based National Institute oflnformatics (NII); and (2) the January 2002 edition of NII 
News which is written almost exclusively in the Japanese language and was not accompanied by a 
certified English translation as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The invitation to the MLabNet 
2001 Seminar indicates that the Petitioner's expenses would be fully paid through the computer 
science department's National Science Foundation (NSF) grant. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that his initial evidence did not establish he was the 
recipient of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his field and 
therefore did not meet the plain language of this criterion. The Director provided a list ofthe types of 
evidence he could provide to establish eligibility and advised him of the need for translations of any 
foreign language documentation submitted. The record reflects that although the Petitioner responded 
to the RFE, he did not address this criterion in his response. Accordingly, the Director determined 
that he did not meet this criterion. 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F(2) appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (indicating that an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution. for example, may have little national or international significance). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner, asserts that "having been INVITED and ATTENDED the National Science 
Foundation's MLabNet Seminar is a highly praised honor for any person who has been recognized for 
their exceptional work and contribution in the Computer Science field." He also emphasizes that the 
seminar was organized by the NSF's Office of International Science and Engineering, noting that 
invitees "have been technically 'internationally awarded' an opportunity to attend the seminar." He 
provides additional information regarding MLabN et and the purpose ofthe 2001 seminar and indicates 
he was invited because he "had ... demonstrated his excellence in the field of endeavor." 
The Petitioner resubmits a copy of the September 2001 invitation letter from his Ph.D. advisor at I land evidence related to the NSF grant that fonded participation ofthe invitees. According 
to this documentation, the NSF awarded $5,290 to "support the participation ofAmerican scientists in 
a U.S.-Japan seminar on MLabNet 2000 advanced multimedia systems and applications." It indicates 
that the seminar's organizers "made a special effort to involve younger researchers, postdocs and 
graduate students as both participants and observers." 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner has been the recipient of an award or prize for 
excellence in his field. While we acknowledge his claim that it was an honor for him to be invited to 
attend the MLabN et Seminar in Japan as a graduate student, we cannot conclude this invitation was 
an "award or prize," or that he was invited to the seminar in recognition of his excellence in the field. 
The only "award" documented is an NSF grant awarded to a university and intended to support any 
unnamed "American scientists" who may be invited to participate in the seminar. The Petitioner may 
have benefited from the grant award, but he was not the individual recipient. The grant abstract 
provides no criteria for the selection of participants and does not indicate whether those outside of the 
awarded university were eligible to be invited under the auspices of the NSF grant. 
Finally, although the Petitioner initially indicated that he was submitting the January 2002 NII News 
publication in support of this criterion, it was not accompanied by the required English translation, 
and we cannot determine whether or to what extent it may support his claims. Therefore, for the 
reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but that they have participated in judging the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specialization. Peer reviewing for a scholarly journal may meet this criterion if a petitioner provides 
evidence of a request from the journal for the person to do the review, and proof that the review was 
actually completed. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he was invited to review three papers submitted to the 
NSF/National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Intelligence and Security Informatics Symposium held in 
Arizona in June 2003, along with evidence that he completed his peer review of all three articles. He 
also provided evidence that he reviewed a paper submitted for publication to Information Sciences in 
April 2008. While the Director concluded that the documentation did not demonstrate the Petitioner's 
4 
completion ofpeer review activities, we disagree and conclude that the submitted evidence is sufficient 
to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This criterion calls for evidence of a petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that their contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have demonstrably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he satisfied this criterion based on his "scholarly 
contributions done for NSF/NTT "bis "Retrieval Recomj'endations," and his article 'l II 'which was published in Data & Knowledge 
Engineering in 2008. Based on the submitted documentation, the referenced "contributions done for 
NSF/NU" refers to the Petitioner's peer review activities for the 2003 NSF/NU Symposium on 
Intelligence and Security Informatics, while the "Retrieval Recommendations" appears to refer to his 
peer review service for the journal Information Sciences, in 2008. He did not explain how his peer 
review of other researchers' work could be considered an "original" contribution, nor did he provide 
support for a claim that his contributions as a peer reviewer have been of major significance in the 
field of computer science. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his article published in Data & Knowledge Engineering 
but did not identify or document how his research findings have been widely implemented throughout 
his field or how his research has impacted or influenced the field. Although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major 
significance. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the reaction from the field 
upon the dissemination of his work confirms that his research rises to the level of a "contribution of 
major significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).3 The Petitioner did not provide a 
citation history for his published work or other evidence of its impact or influence, nor did he identify 
a specific original contribution he has made in his research area or explain the significance of his 
contributions. 
In the RFE, the Director provided a list of the types of documentary evidence the Petitioner could 
submit, such as testimonial letters from experts in the field, evidence that people throughout the field 
regard his original contributions as important, evidence that his work has been widely cited or has 
provoked widespread commentary, or evidence that his work is being implemented by others. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion or include any additional evidence. 
Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. The Director 
observed that the Petitioner's published research demonstrated original contributions in his field but 
emphasized that he had not provided evidence that his work had been widely cited. The Director also 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual) (stating that "[p Jeer­
reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a 
citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of their 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
5 
noted, in both the RFE and the denial, that USCIS had reviewed the Petitioner's publicly available 
Google Scholar profile and found it did not support a finding that his work had received significant 
notice from others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that while his own publications have only 10 cumulative citations, 
his work "did indirectly gamer hundreds of citations" because "his data was cited by other researchers 
and scholars as a very reliable source of data" and "their articles and publications did contribute to a 
major significance in the field of computer science." The Petitioner submits a Scotus citation history 
corroborating that his 2008 article has been cited 10 times. This evidence also provides citation counts 
for articles citing the Petitioner's work and shows that three ofthose articles have been cited 434, 375, 
and 126 times, respectively. He contends the Director's conclusion that he has not made contributions 
of major significance in the field of computer science is a "completely unjustified assumption." 
The Petitioner also provides evidence his 2005 conference paper, '~-----------~ I I" has been accessed digitally 707 times. Finally, 
he reiterates his previous claim that his peer review activities satisfy this criterion and submits 
evidence to document that one of the papers he reviewed for the 2003 NSF/NIJ Symposium on 
Intelligence and Security Informatics has been accessed 1,669 times. He states this level of interest in 
the paper demonstrates the major significance of his scholarly contribution. 
As noted, the Petitioner was provided an opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of this 
criterion prior to the denial of the petition and did not address it in his RFE response. The Petitioner 
does not contend that the evidence provided for the first time on appeal was unavailable at the time he 
responded to the Director's RFE. Therefore, we need not consider this evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all evidence requested in an RFE to be submitted together at one time); see 
also Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put 
on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record 
before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal"); see also Matter ofObaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
Nevertheless, even ifthe Petitioner had submitted the same evidence in response to the RFE, it would 
be insufficient to show that he meets this criterion. The Petitioner asserts that his published work has 
garnered nearly 1000 "indirect citations" and appears to suggest that any paper referenced in a highly 
cited publication should be deemed a contribution of major significance in a given field. He provides 
no evidentiary basis for this broad supposition. He has not, for example, provided copies ofthe papers 
that cited his work in support ofhis claim that his research findings were highly impactful or influential 
on other researchers. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in 
a petitioner's published or presented work. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
number of citations received by his published work is commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner provides evidence that one of his articles has been digitally accessed over 700 times, 
but the record does not contain comparative information, such as access data for other papers published 
in his field in the same year. Without supporting evidence to provide such context, he has not 
supported his claim that the total number of times his paper was accessed establishes the major 
significance of his published research. In addition, an access count does not tell us whether or how 
6 
the Petitioner's research findings have been used in subsequent studies. If access of his paper has 
rarely resulted in citations, then the access count does not appear to correlate to the impact or influence 
ofthe Petitioner's research in the field. Here, although he provided evidence that his 2005 conference 
paper was accessed 707 times, he did not provide evidence that this paper has been cited by any other 
researchers. Finally, the Petitioner provides evidence that an article he peer-reviewed prior to 
publication has been accessed over 1600 times and cited 22 times. Even if we determined that this 
article constituted a contribution of major significance in the field, it was not co-authored by the 
Petitioner and cannot be considered his original contribution to the field; his role was limited to the 
provision of edits and comments as part of his service as a peer reviewer. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but to also demonstrate 
why they are considered to be of major significance in the field. Here, for the reasons discussed, the 
Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
This criterion requires a two-part determination in which we consider both (1) the significance of an 
individual's role within an organization or establishment (or within a division or department of an 
organization or establishment), and (2) the reputation of the organization or establishment (or its 
division or department). For a leading role, the evidence should establish that the individual is (or 
was) a leader within the organization. A title, with appropriate matching duties may help to 
demonstrate performance in a leading role. For a critical role, the evidence should establish that the 
person has contributed n a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities ( or those of a specific division or department thereof See generally, 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Letters from persons with personal knowledge of the 
significance of the individual's leading or critical role can be persuasive if they contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role within an organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. Id. 
In a cover letter accompanying the petition, the Petitioner stated he "has performed in a critical role 
for organizations that have a distinguished reputation" and indicated he was submitting academic 
records relating to his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; a copy of his Ph.D. dissertation; an 
academic credentials evaluation report; and proof of his membership in Triple Nine Society, which 
was granted based on his submission of score at or above the 99.9th percentile on a standardized 
intelligence or general aptitude test. He did not identify the organization( s) for which he performed 
in a critical role, identify the specific critical role( s) he has held, or provide letters from persons with 
knowledge ofhis performance in such roles. Further, he did not submit evidence intended to establish 
the distinguished reputation of a specific organization or establishment. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this evidence and other evidence submitted in support of the 
petition, and informed the Petitioner why it was insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
The RFE provided a list of evidence the Petitioner could submit, emphasizing that letters from current 
or former employers with personal knowledge of the significance of his roles, or other documentary 
7 
evidence, may be particularly effective in supporting his claim. Although the Petitioner submitted a 
response to the RFE, he did not provide any additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the evidence he previously provided in support of this criterion 
but does not articulate a claim that the Director erred in evaluating this evidence under the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner states he has "continued to 
perform critical roles in organizations that have a distinguished reputation in the Computer Science 
field," noting he is now a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
Computer Society. He describes this association as "the world's leading membership organization 
dedicated to science and technology" and a "community for technology leaders." The evidence on 
appeal documents that the Petitioner became a member of IEEE and IEEE Computer Society in 2023. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the 
plain language ofthis criterion. Based on the evidence he provided, he appears to rely on his academic 
achievements and association memberships rather than his performance in a leading or critical role for 
an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 4 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has spent most ofhis post-graduate professional career employed 
as an assistant professor for a community college within thd lsystem in New York. However, 
he has not submitted evidence of his leading or critical role with this organization or evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the college or department that employs him. A letter from his employer's 
human resources department provides his job title and current salary and confirms that he is 
responsible for "teaching courses and conducting research in the field of Computer Science." The 
letter does not contain sufficient detail to support a determination that the Petitioner performs in a 
leading or critical role for this organization. The record also contains a May 2000 employment offer 
letter froml I The Petitioner's curriculum vitae indicates he worked 
for this company as a web developer from May 2000 until August 2001, but the record does not contain 
evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role or establish the company's distinguished 
reputation. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The Petitioner has satisfied only two of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore 
does not meet the initial evidence requirement for this classification. As noted, the Director also 
determined the Petitioner did not establish that he intends to enter the United States to continue work 
4 As noted, the Petitioner did not claim that he can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires evidence 
of an individual's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their fields. Although the 
Petitioner was a member of Triple Nine Society at the time of filing, the record does not show this association is in the 
computer science or engineering field or that it requires outstanding achievements as judged by experts in the field. The 
Petitioner's membership in IEEE Computer Society post-dates the filing of the petition. A petitioner must establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought at the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to be eligible through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
8 
in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
Detailed discussion of these remaining grounds for denial cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve and will not discuss the Petitioner's appellate arguments relating to these issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2023 In Re: 26991084 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a soccer coach, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one ofthat small 
percentage at the very top ofhis field of endeavor. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is 
now before us on motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a professional soccer player in Brazil and Trinidad and 
Tobago from 1993 until 2009, when he transitioned to coaching . The Petitioner initially held coaching 
roles wit~ Ia professional team in Trinidad and Tobago, and has coached 
youth soccer teams since 2015. At the time of filing in August 2020, he was employed as the head 
soccer coach for the Under 14 (Ul4) and Under 12 (U12) teams forl linICalifornia. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met four of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this I 
classification. Specifically, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence of 
published material about him and relating to his work as an athlete and coach; evidence that he had 
participated as a judge of the work of others in the field; evidence that he had performed in a leading 
or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and evidence that he has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii) 
and (ix). 
Because we determined the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we proceeded to a final 
merits determination to evaluate whether he had demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In our appellate decision, we determined the Petitioner did not 
establish eligibility. We noted the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner has achieved or sustained 
a level of acclaim he achieved from when he was a player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago to after 
when he went to pursue other coaching opportunities with youth soccer organizations, or a level of 
acclaim that places him at the top of the field among soccer coaches. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief, and supporting documentation to include, in part, an expert 
opinion letter and letters of support. The Petitioner asserts that these new facts establish eligibility 
evidencing that his work in subsequent years has brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a 
national or international level. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that from 2015 to 201 7 he served an essential role as a Director of 
Coaching at the~--------~Football Academy which was established by thel I 
I !Football Association. In support of this claim, he submits a letter from I I 
the I I Football Association's Director of Communications, who confirms the 
Petitioner's employment and outlines the duties he performed. The Petitioner farther indicated from 
2018 to 2020 he held the position of head soccer coach for I I In 
support ofthis claim, the Petitioner submits a letter from I IA Licensed Coach 
and Instructor, that states the Petitioner "coached at the highest level ofyouth soccer during his tenure 
inally, from 2019 to 2020, the Petitioner asserts he was the assistant coach withe==] 
in Brazil. In support of this claim, the Petitioner submits a letter from~ 
Ul 7 Head Coach, confirming his role as assistant coach and his duties. 
While we acknowledge the documentation submitted on motion highlights the Petitioner's continued 
experience as a coach up to the point of filing the instant petition, the Petitioner did not establish he 
sustained a level of acclaim, and he did not sufficiently demonstrate that these coaching positions 
placed him among the small percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his coaching experiences compared to others at the 
top of the field or demonstrate how his coaching activities have either resulted from or contributed to 
his sustained national or international acclaim. Further, the regulations require that the Petitioner 
provide "extensive documentation" to show that his achievements have been recognized in the field. 
We found that the Petitioner had little or no evidence of such recognition in the five years preceding 
the filing of the petition; his submission on motion of more recent evidence of his coaching 
employment positions does not automatically meet this high standard or demonstrate that he has 
2 
sustained national or international acclaim as a coach. While the letters of support submitted on 
motion evidence that his colleagues respect and appreciate him, they do not sufficiently indicate he 
has sustained national or international acclaim as a coach. 
In addition, the Petitioner does not provide sufficient evidence of the rankin · ortance of the 
teams he has coached prior to filing the petition. Although the letter from.__,--__, ____, states the 
Petitioner coached at the highest level of youth soccer during his tenure with that information 
alone is not sufficient to understand the level of the Petitioner's coaching. For example,~is a 
large organization with several teams, and it is not clear if there is a ranking of teams within thee::] 
and whether the Petitioner is ranked as a coach within I IThe same is also true for his work as an 
assistant coach for the~-------~ in Brazil. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient 
documentation that would enable us to understand the ranking of that club within Brazil compared to 
other teams. Further, the Petitioner did not indicate how many coaches are part of that club and 
whether he was the only assistant coach or one of many. Without further context of the role of each 
coaching position the Petitioner held, it is impossible to determine if he is one of the small percentage 
of coaches at the very top of his field. 
On motion, the Petitioner also submits an opinion letter from Director and 
Professor of the Sfort Management program of the Colle e of Business and Economics 
at the University I In his opinion letter,.______ __. concluded the Petitioner has 
"extraordinary ability in the Soccer field and has satisfied at least six of the criteria of the USCIS 
classification as an Alien ofExtraordinary Ability." I !outlined in his letter the Petitioner's 
professional experience as a professional soccer player and coach. He often quotes from letters 
submitted in the record to further reiterate the Petitioner's experience. While we acknowledge the 
experience the Petitioner has as a professional soccer player and coach as outlined in the opinion letter, I ldoes not provide new evidence as it solely confirms evidence previously submitted and 
is not considered new facts. Nor does the opinion letter overcome the concerns discussed in our 
decision. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 5, 2023 In Re: 26377374 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated he is a highly qualified restaurateur with over 25 years ofexperience and has a "keen 
flair for innovation thinking in the development of South Indian vegetarian food as a global trend." The 
Petitioner further stated he opened three successful outlets of a traditional South Indian vegetarian chain 
in the United States. He will continue to work in the United States as a general manager in the restaurant 
industry. Because the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (v), alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of 
major significance in the field 
• (vii), display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the criterion pertaining to performing in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not pursue his initial claims that he meets the criteria relating to receipt of lesser nationally or 
international recognized prizes or awards, published material, original contributions, and display of 
work, nor does he contest the Director's conclusions regarding these issues. We therefore consider 
those issues abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att :v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's performance in a leading 
or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. But for the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed membership in two organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's material, 
the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he did not 
establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of membership and 
the associations were not in the field for which classification is sought, in this case as a general 
manager. Within the appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the memberships he has attained qualify 
under this criterion. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both ofthe following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
First, we consider the South Indian Chef Association (SICA). On appeal, the Petitioner submits a 
print-out from the SICA website stating it is a fraternity of culinary professionals representing the 
finest hotels, restaurants, and culinary institutions in South India. The Petitioner also states SICA 
candidates must hold a position of Chef de Partie/Sr. Chef de Partie, Kitchen Executive/Junior Sous 
Che±: Chef, Executive Chef or Corporate Chef, or a position of equal designation. The Petitioner 
submits a copy of his official SICA identification card and certificate. While we acknowledge the 
Petitioner is a member of SICA, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate this 
association is in the field classification is sought since he will be a general manager. In fact, the 
Petitioner listed the positions members must hold to become eligible for this association and he did 
not list the position of general manager. In addition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence 
regarding the eligibility requirements for becoming a member of SICA and it is therefore not clear 
how members are eligible to join. The submitted documentation does not show that SICA utilized 
national or international recognized experts to judge the achievement of prospective members to 
determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that SCIA used this 
outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. Each of these are mandatory 
requirements within the regulation. 
The Petitioner further provides a copy of his membership card and certificate of membership for the 
American Culinary Federation, Inc. (ACF). According to the print-out from the ACF website, the 
association is a "professional organization for chefs and cooks," and it has more than 14,000 members 
throughout the United States. While we acknowledge the Petitioner is a member ofACF, the Petitioner 
3 
did not provide sufficient evidence this association is in the field of management. The Petitioner also 
submits a letter from the President of thel IChapter of ACF, who stated a Chef must be 
invited by a Fellow of the ACF to complete the application process and we only choose Chefs at the 
"top of their game." Although the letter confirms members are at the "top of the game," this 
information is not sufficient to demonstrate the requirements for becoming a member of ACF and it 
is therefore not clear how members are eligible to join. In other words, the record does not establish 
how the ACF ascertains whether prospective members are at "the top of their game." The submitted 
documentation does not show that ACF utilized national or international recognized experts to judge 
the achievement of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also 
lacking was an indication that ACF used this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for membership. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not 
supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 2 
On appeal the Petitioner does not explain how any of the organizations require outstanding 
achievements as one ofthe minimum requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work of 
others in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states he served as a judge for one episode of a cooking show where he determined the 
"Most Innovative South Indian Cuisine." On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from Insideus 
Media confirming that od I2014, the Petitioner was a judge for one episode of a cooking 
show where six chefs were given 45 minutes to present their cooking to the Petitioner. The Petitioner 
scored the contestants on presentation, taste, innovation, and judged the winner of the contest. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show he judged the work of others in the same of 
allied field of specification for which classification is sought. In this case, the Petitioner judged the 
work ofchefs; however, the Petitioner's work for which classification is sought is to work as a general 
manager in the restaurant industry. On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide evidence to overcome 
the Director's concerns or demonstrate he judged the work of individuals in the field of restaurant 
management. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 17 5 6, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
2 Matter ofHo, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
4 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); 
see also Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); Skokos v. US. Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 
712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The burden 
is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not 
limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different 
countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would 
be considered high in the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an offer letter it executed with.____ --r-____ ___,on July 10, 
201 7. The offer letter offered the Petitioner a general manager position with an annual base salary of 
$180,000. The Petitioner also submits a copy of the Occupational Outlook Handbook's entry for the 
"Food Service Managers" occupational category, which indicated a 2021 median pay of $55,440 per 
year. The Petitioner contends a salary of $180,000 is much higher than the median pay for a food 
service manager. However, an offer letter alone is not sufficient evidence to establish the Petitioner 
received the claimed salary. The Petitioner also submits Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, 2021, 
that indicated the Petitioner's compensation as $13,880.00. The Petitioner does not explain the 
discrepancy in the claimed salary and the salary he was actually paid according to the tax statement. 
On appeal the Petitioner submits copies ofhis pay statements for 2022; however, this is over two years 
after the current petition was filed. USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish 
eligibility for the benefit it is seeking at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A 
visa petition may not be approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after the Petitioner or 
Beneficiary becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See Matter ofMichelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N 
Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). A petitioner may not make material changes to a petition in an 
effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS requirements. See Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
5 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 8, 2023 In Re: 26583404 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a petroleum engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish he 
had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Evidence ofthe alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work 
of others in the same or allied field and authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied 
any ofthe remaining categories. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met the evidentiary criteria 
relating to each ofthe areas upon which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing 
all the evidence in the record, not only do we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied 
the criteria regarding judging the work of others in the same or an allied field and authorship of 
scholarly articles, but we also conclude he satisfies one additional criterion. Because we conclude the 
Petitioner has satisfied that additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement. 
However, it is unnecessary that we evaluate the remaining claimed criteria because the Petitioner is 
only required to satisfy three of the regulatory requirements. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or 
was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of 
distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/ dictionary /distinguished). The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's role in several companies but concluded the evidence did not 
sufficiently establish these companies had distinguished reputations. On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
additional evidence regarding these roles, and in particular the leading roles he held as Head of the 
Department ofOperation ofLiquefied Natural Gas and Head ofthe Department ofNavigation Safety and 
Quality Management Systems for a subsidiary of his home country's largest independent producer of 
natural gas, which is also one of the world's largest public oil and gas companies in terms ofproduction. 
The Petitioner submits detailed descriptions of the duties he performed in these positions as well as 
detailed, credible, and probative letters of support confirming and describing those leading roles in 
meaningful detail, including the role the Petitioner played in the organization overall. The Petitioner also 
submits additional evidence regarding the company's reputation, including an extensive list with 
supporting documentation showing the prizes and awards the company won between 2005 and 2022. 
In summary, the credible evidence provided on appeal sufficiently demonstrates that, more likely than 
not, the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval ofthe petition. However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 8, 2023 In Re: 26387387 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marine biologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to judging and authorship, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
membership, published material, original contributions, artistic display, leading or critical role, and 
salary criteria. After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.3 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors.4 
H;..::..:.:er:...:e2.., ....::.th=e=--=P--=e..:.:ti..:.:ti:..:o.::n:.:..er:....Lp.:..ro=-v.:....:i..:.:d:.:..ed=--=a:.....:..:.M.:.:a=r..:.ch=--=2:...:0....::.l....:.7_1:..:e..:.:tt:..:e.:..r-=fr:..:o:..:m::.....:t=h=e-'-='M.:..:.::an=a:.:£g2.:e::.r....:o:..:f:....!:· l=====----'t at the L-----------~,------1-- ____________ __J in Ecuador 
stating that he "was approved as a Researcher Category 3, on July 25, 2014, by the 
Executive Committee of Scholarships of the.________ ___, ... to develop his research J.)roject, 
entitled 'Ecosystematic characterization of the benthic community in the I jand in 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
4 Id. 
2 
sandy beaches of the surrounding oceanic coast,' which was developed from September 10, 2014 to 
September 9, 2015, satisfactorily fulfilling all the objectives of the project." The Petitioner also 
submitted information about thel Ibut this documentation does not 
demonstrate the significance of his specific "Researcher Category 3" fellowship in the field of 
endeavor or show that his particular fellowship was recognized by the field in general rather than 
mainly limited to those associated with the In addition, the Petitioner submitted a 
June 2015 article in El Telegrafo, entitled' 
~--------------------------------~ ' This article 
does not mention the Petitioner or demonstrate that his 2014 fellowship has received media coverage 
or attention that rises to the level of national or international recognition. 5 Without farther evidence 
regarding its national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
hisl Ifellowship is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in 
the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he is a member of the International Biometric 
Society (IBS) and that he fulfilled the accreditation requirements of the I I as a foreign 
researcher working in Ecuador. He also presented information about the IBS' regular member 
"Qualifications" which stated that "[r]egular members are those individuals who are interested in the 
scope and purpose ofthe society." In addition, the Petitioner provided! !"Requirements 
for registration" which indicated that individuals "must have at least two (2) years of experience in 
research and/or technological development (R&D) activities; which must be endorsed through the 
presentation of certificates from the institution or institutions responsible for the R&D process, 
relevant works and/or indexed articles we will also be considered as endorsement." The Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the aforementioned IBS andl ~riteria (including interest in a society, 
two years of research experience, or authorship of papers) rise to the level of "outstanding" 
achievements. Without evidence indicating that receiving IBS membership or I I 
accreditation requires outstanding achievements and that admission to their membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts, Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted a 2013 article in El Serviola (a ublication of the Universidad I,_______,I I entitled ,________________________ ~' This article is 
about a research project and only briefly mentions the Petitioner as the lead researcher. This regulatory 
criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about him do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
5 Nor did the Petitioner present circulation data for El Telegrafo. 
3 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, while the Petitioner 
asserts on appeal that El Serviola "is a major trade publication," he did not offer comparative circulation 
statistics or other evidence to corroborate his claim. 6 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his research articles, citation evidence for 
his published work, and letters of support from colleagues in the field. The Director considered this 
documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work 
constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 7 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that he provided letters of support from several experts "in 
the field ofmarine biology, which document the major significance of [his] work."8 These references 
discussed his research relating to the ecology of sandy beaches, but their statements do not demonstrate 
its major significance in the field. As discussed below, the reference letters do not offer sufficiently 
detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to show the 
nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been 
considered to be of major significance. 
Dr. A-M-, the Petitioner's former academic advisor at S-B-University, indicated that the Petitioner's 
research articles about the influence of rivers on sandy beaches have "been used by other Latin 
American researchers" in their published work. For instance, Dr. A-M-stated that the Petitioner's 
findings relating to the beach clam Tivela mactroides allowed Dr. A-T-and his "collaborators to 
establish a theory that explains the mortality events ofthis organism." The record, however, does not 
include sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has affected the 
field in a substantial way beyond Dr. A-T-'s research team or otherwise constitutes a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
In addition, Dr. O-D-, a professor at U-R-, stated that his research team "used the results reported in 
the doctoral thesis of [the Petitioner]." Dr. O-D-farther noted that the Petitioner's work "contributed 
to understanding the patterns of diversity and species richness at a biogeographic spatial scale of 
benthic invertebrates associated with South American sandy beaches," but he did not offer specific 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
8 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
examples indicating that the Petitioner's findings have influenced the field of marine biology to the 
extent that they are of major significance in his field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work involving "ecological processes in the marine-coastal zone," Dr. 1-0, 
an associate researcher at F-U-R-G-, asserted that the Petitioner's scientific papers have contributed 
"to the understanding of the functioning of coastal marine ecosystems and sandy beaches, providing 
solid evidence for the proposal of ecological models that explain the patterns of spatiotemporal 
variations and how these can be modulated by fluvial nutrient inputs from the rivers that flow into 
them." We recognize that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in some way in 
order to be accepted for publication, presentation, funding, or academic credit, but not every finding 
that broadens knowledge in a particular field constitutes a scientific contribution ofmajor significance 
in that field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his research findings have been widely utilized 
or otherwise represent an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
As another form of evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) included June 2022 information from ResearchGate.net indicating that his body of 
published work had received 70 cumulative citations. 9 The Petitioner, however, did not identify how 
many were self-citations or independent citations. In addition, he did not establish how many of the 
citations occurred in papers published prior to or at the time ofinitial filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
Nor has the Petitioner compared the number of his authored works and their citation rate to other 
researchers in his field to differentiate his work as majorly significant. 
Notwithstanding the above, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the number ofcitations for any ofhis published 
articles is commensurate with contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did 
not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For example, he did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. 
The information from ResearchGate.net also indicated that Petitioner's articles had "5,778 Reads." 
The Petitioner, however, has not shown that this online readership statistic indicates a contribution of 
major significance in his field. The appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown 
that his individual articles, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been 
considered important at a level consistent with original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient documentation to demonstrate that any of his 
published findings have risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field of marine 
biology. 
9 The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his cumulative number ofcitations represents contributions ofmajor significance 
in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than 
identifying which published research, if any, the field considers to be majorly significant. Here, the Petitioner does not 
explain or specify how the number of citations to his individual or particular articles resulted in original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively , the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien 's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner contends that presentations of his work at scientific conferences and seminars are 
comparable evidence for this criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to 
submit comparable evidence if they are able to show that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . A petitioner should demonstrate that the 
standards described in the regulations do not readily apply to their occupation as well as that the 
evidence they have provided is "truly comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 10 
The Petitioner asserts that he "is not within an occupation that readily provides him with the 
opportunity to display his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The work of a marine biologist 
is scientific in nature . .. and requires display at scientific conferences and seminars. The Petitioner 
cannot display his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases because his work is not artistic in nature." 
He further contends that "the only difference between the Petitioner's display of work and that of an 
artist is the venue used to present the work. As such, [the Petitioner's] evidence is comparable 
evidence to that required by this criterion." 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that presentations at scientific conferences and 
seminars are truly comparable to the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . Rather, his 
scientific presentations are based on authored scholarly articles and therefore relevant for 
consideration as comparable evidence under the scholarly articles criterion, a criterion the Petitioner 
has already satisfied. Here, we do not consider scientific presentations to be truly comparable under 
the display criterion as the characteristics and nature of his scientific presentations are more akin to 
the scholarly articles criterion. The Petitioner therefore has not established that he qualifies for this 
criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation . 11 
The Petitioner submitted a June 2022 letter from W-M-F-, a sustainability senior advisor, discussing 
the Petitioner 's work for! IW-M-F- asserted that 
he formed these companies and that they provided "services for many oil and gas projects in 
Venezuela, for international companies like Chevron, Enron, Shell, Amoco, BP, and Perenco." The 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria 
are readily applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the 
criteria listed in that regulation). 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (defining "distinguished" as marked by eminence , distinction , or 
excellence) . 
6 
Director determined W-M-F-'s letter was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner had performed 
in a leading or critical role for either company, or that they had distinguished reputation. 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner argues that '~-----------~ past business 
relationships with some of the most recognizable oil companies in the world is [sic] indicative of its 
distinguished reputation," but he did not offer evidence to corroborate the claims in W-M-F-'s letter 
regarding the existence of these business relationships. 12 Aside from mentioning that I II Ioffered services for various oil companies, W-M-F-'s 
letter does not elaborate on the reputation of his two companies or identify specific examples of 
evidence indicating that they have garnered a distinguished reputation. Nor did the Petitioner include 
I evidence of any media reports or Icompany awards, for example, showing how
reputation compares to other environmental com._p_a_n_i_e-s,_o_r_h_o_w_t_h_e_ir_. 
successes or accomplishments in the industry differentiate them from other businesses, indicating a 
distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. The limited information and 
evidence presented does not show that I Ihave a 
distinguished reputation. 13 The Petitioner therefore has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation (dated 2019) from E-S-P-L- (a public university in Ecuador) 
indicating that, as a "Professor" in the "Faculty of Life Sciences," he received monthly remuneration 
of $3,150.00. As evidence that his salary is high relative to others in the field, the Petitioner presented 
information from 2000carreras.com listing the "average salary" for "recent" graduates who are 
"beginning" their careers as a "Marine Biologist."14 Regarding the "average salary" data 
from2000carreras.com, the Petitioner must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field rather than just a salary that is above 
"average" in his field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that comparing his professor's salary to novice marine 
biologists (who recently graduated college and are at the beginning of their career) represents a proper 
basis for comparison. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary 
or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
12 Nonetheless, the Petitioner has not shown that having a business relationship with a larger company signifies a 
distinguished reputation. 
13 Since this issue is dispositive of this criterion, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the appellate arguments regarding 
whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts 
and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
14 The "Marine Biologist" salary information from 2000carreras.com stated: "Today we will take the case of a recent 
graduate. In 2021, the average salary is around 1,100.00 dollars per month when working full time .... This salary is at 
the beginning, the more experience and seniority you have in the area, your salary will be higher ...." 
7 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that the comparative salary data he offered shows that his 
earnings are high relative to others in his field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final 
merits determination. 15 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2023 In Re: 27032687 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established she received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Director found the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
related to a leading or critical role performed for distinguished organizations and that of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), related to high salary or other significantly high remuneration. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts she meets two additional evidentiary criteria, that of (iv), related to judging others' 
work and (v), related to original contributions of major significance.1 For the reasons described below, 
we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has established eligibility under (viii) and (ix). 
We instead conclude that she has established eligibility under only one criterion, that of (iv). While 
we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 2 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that she had not established eligibility under criterion 
(i), related to lesser-known prizes or awards, and (ii), related to membership in an association requiring outstanding 
achievements. Additionally, the Petitioner did not claim eligibility under criteria (iii), (vi), (vii), or (x) before the Director 
or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these six criteria on appeal, we consider 
these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing 
party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att •,.Gen., 
401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); 
Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will not be required 
to specifically address each claim a petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to address every piece of evidence the 
petitioner presents. Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 
(1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. U.S. INS, 984 
F.2d 105, 107 (4th Cir. 1993). 
2 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that they have not only been invited to judge 
the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the 
same of allied field of specialization.3 The Petitioner asserts that her employment as an accountant 
and in various accountant related positions involved duties to review others' work. She provided 
examples of how she reviewed a subordinate's draft of a request for proposal and another coworker's 
draft of a standard operating procedure. On appeal, she provides a letter and a price quote document 
for the sale of seeds to the government of Fiji. The Petitioner asserts that she judged and reviewed 
these materials on behalf of others and at their request, which establishes she meets this criterion. 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, explaining: 
[T]he phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, either on a 
panel or individually. . . . Regardless of broad dictionary definitions of the words 
"judge" and "work," the final determination of whether evidence meets the plain 
language requirements of a regulation lies with USCIS. . . . [E]vidence must 
demonstrate that the beneficiary is "recognized in the field of expertise," so the 
regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating employees 
or products. Incidental evaluation responsibilities inherent to your employment or 
product validation position do not establish that you served in an official capacity, 
either individually or on a panel, as "a judge" of the work of others .... 
The Director points out relevant considerations concerning the quality of the Petitioner's evidence. 
While we agree with the qualitative analysis, we conclude it more appropriately belongs in a final 
merits determination. For instance, the plain language of the criterion does not mention that the 
judging must be in an "official capacity," nor does the criterion require the evidence to demonstrate 
"recognition in the field of expertise." While this analysis is certainly relevant to our overall 
determination of eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification, it appears that in this particular 
instance, such qualitative analysis belongs in a final merits determination. The Petitioner has 
established that she judged the work of others in her field, thereby satisfying the plain language of the 
criterion. We withdraw the Director's finding that she did not meet this criterion and instead conclude 
she has met this criterion. 
However, were we to engage in a final merits determination, the Petitioner's evidence of her 
participation as a judge would not support a finding of sustained national or international acclaim or 
that she is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field for reasons similar 
to those the Director articulated. The Director further noted the intent of Congress in implementing 
the regulations was to set a very high standard for the extraordinary ability classification, as reflected 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
by the requirement to present more extensive documentation than is required for lesser classifications. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). A review of coworkers' drafts and other similar 
instances of"judging" would not serve as strong or quality evidence of eligibility for the extraordinary 
ability classification. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
they have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance.4 
The Petitioner primarily relies upon numerous support letters from former employers and coworkers 
to establish eligibility under this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director "DID NOT 
RECOGNIZE EVEN ONE SINGLE LETTER/TESTIMONY" (all capital letters in original). 
However, the Director's decision includes quoted content from eight different letters. As such, we do 
not find support for the Petitioner's assertion. The Director concluded: 
This criterion has not been met because the evidence submitted does not show that your 
contributions are considered to be of major significance in the field of endeavor. To 
successfully meet this criterion, you must establish that your original contribution[s] 
have impacted or influenced their entire field. The letters ... do not describe an impact 
that is sufficiently widespread. The term "original" and the phrase "major significance" 
are not superfluous and therefore have some meaning (internal citations omitted). 
Regardless of the field, the phrase "contributions of major significant in the field" 
requires substantial influence beyond one's employer, clients, or customers.... 
We reviewed the Petitioner's evidence and agree with the Director's determination quoted above. The 
letters support a finding that the Petitioner performed well at her jobs and offered her employers time 
and cost saving methods and tools. The letters' authors describe her work and the impact her work 
had on their business, including their sister and subsidiary businesses in other parts of the world. 
However, for the reasons the Director explained, this is not necessarily sufficient to establish eligibility 
under this criterion. 
In thel !letter, the author states they do not personally know the Petitioner but heard 
about her "bottom up" accounting methods and detailed cost analysis reports from their professional 
contacts. The author explained that they had never heard of the Petitioner's method before but when 
implemented, they were able to prepare the budget in less time and offer their board of directors a 
detailed report. Although the author describes a positive experience using methods and reports they 
attribute to the Petitioner's creation, this is insufficient to establish how the Petitioner's methods are 
"original" or of "major significance in the field." While a person may not have heard of a method 
before, this does not necessarily establish its originality. Likewise, simply because a method may be 
4 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
4 
new to a particular business or customized for a particular business, does not establish the method's 
originality. Furthermore, implementation of the method across one or even several businesses does 
not support a finding that such methods constitute "contributions of major significance in the field." 
Even if the Petitioner developed or created the tools and methods! land the Petitioner's 
employers used, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the contributions' impact or influence in the overall 
field.5 Further, even if the methods delivered cost/time savings, more detailed reports, and other 
benefits to the business, the content of the letters do not contain sufficient details supporting a finding 
of '"major significance. "6 
We conclude, the support letter authors do not sufficiently identify original contributions, nor do they 
provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly significant 
in the field. Because the Petitioner has not established that her personal and professional achievements 
are original contributions which have been of major significance to the overall field of accounting, we 
conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
A petitioner must establish that they have performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment.7 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.8 For a "distinguished" reputation, we refer to the dictionary definition of "distinguished," 
meaning "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person."9 
The Director found the Petitioner met this criterion but provided no analysis to support this 
determination. We reviewed the Petitioner's employment history and experience, the letters from 
employers and coworkers, as well as the articles and press releases about the Petitioner's various 
employers. While we acknowledge this evidence, we conclude it does not establish eligibility under 
this criterion. 
To illustrate, the evidence ofl !distinguished reputation includes press releases about their 
partnerships, mergers, and acquisitions, as well as an organizational chart, and a Wikipedia printout 
about the company. It is not apparent how their organizational structure or press releases and articles 
about their business operations establishes I I reputation. Wikipedia is an online 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). ~---~ 
6 Additionally, thel !letter does not state for whom or where the author works, nor does the letter contain 
letterhead, a business email address, or website. As such, we question the legitimacy of the author's ability to comment 
on the impact of the Petitioner's methods on their business or the Petitioner's originality. Therefore, we place little 
probative value in this letter. 
7 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" can be found online at https://www.merriam­
webster.com/d ictionary/d isti ngu ished. 
5 
encyclopedia edited and maintained by any member(s) of the public. As such, we do not consider 
Wikipedia to be a reliable information source. In addition, the printout provides background 
information about I I but this information does not necessarily establish I I 
reputation. 
The Petitioner provided articles describing the I I another of the Petitioner's former 
employers, as a fast-growing United Kingdom-based cycling business that received! !funds 
to expand its o,erations. However, the Petitioner has not explained how this information establishes 
thel j has a distinguished reputation. Furthermore, the Petitioner provided a general job 
description of her position as "Finance Manager -International," but this job description does not 
supply sufficient information with which to determine whether the Petitioner performed in a leading 
or critical role for the I I 
The Petitioner provided several letters from and articles about thel IThe articles about 
the ,_______ _,size and new projects suggest that it may have a distinguished reputation; 
however, there is little evidence to establish how the Petitioner performed a leading or critical role 
within the organization. The support letters favorably discuss the Petitioner's work and the company's 
appreciation of her, but they do not discuss how she performed as a leader within the organization, nor 
do they offer sufficiently detailed explanations of how she contributed in away that was of significant 
importance to the outcome of the establishment's activities. 
The letter from provides more detailed information about the Petitioner's role at the 
than the other letters; however, thel !letter is undated, not on letterhead, 
~a-nd_i_n_cl-ud_e_s_a~personal Gmail address, rather than abusiness address. AlthoughI !describes 
herself as the former General Manager of Finance for the I I we question the credibility 
of this letter given its personal, rather than professional, appearance. Even if we accepted this letter 
as credible and probative, it would still not contain a sufficient explanation of how the Petitioner's role 
within thel Ior her specific division, would be considered "leading" or "critical." 
For the foregoing reasons, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner met this criterion and 
instead conclude the evidence does not establish her eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.10 The Director found the Petitioner 
met this criterion but provided no analysis to support this determination. 
The Petitioner provided employment contracts and letters stating the salary various prior employers 
offered her, as well as a smattering of pay stubs from several of those positions; however, these 
documents do not show the actual salary the Petitioner earned. 11 For instance, the paystubs establish 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
11 The evidence related to aprospective employment position in the United States and asalary proposed, but not yet earned, 
6 
the compensation paid to the Petitioner over the particular pay periods covered but do not clearly show 
the Petitioner's total annual salary. Likewise, the letters from employers proposing a salary or stating 
the Petitioner earned a particular salary does not sufficiently establish the actual salary the Petitioner 
earned. 
The Petitioner provided printouts of salary data reports organized by position; however, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently established that these are position-appropriate compensation surveys. To illustrate, 
the Petitioner provided United Kingdom salary averages and ranges for "finance jobs." It is unclear 
what positions such a broad category includes, but we assume it could range from simple bookkeeping 
positions to chief financial officer positions. Therefore, it is not possible to ascertain how the 
Petitioner's specific position compensation compares to others in those same positions in that 
geographical area. Similarly, the Glassdoor salary surveys pertain to accountants with one to three 
years of experience, whereas the Petitioner asserted she has 10 to 14 years of experience in her field. 
As such, the Glassdoor printouts of entry-level positions are not appropriate comparisons to the 
Petitioner's positions. 
Both precedent decisions and case law support a pos1t1on-appropriate application of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
Additionally, some of the salary data printouts cut off the date in which they were conducted while 
others state they are from 2022. However, the Petitioner's employment in such positions may have 
occurred years prior, such that 2022 salary data would not provide an accurate picture of the average 
salaries paid when the Petitioner held the relevant position. Finally, the employer letters and contracts 
offer insufficient information about the organizational justifications to pay above the compensation 
data provided. 
Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner did not establish she commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in the same position. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding that she met this criterion 
and instead conclude the evidence does not sufficiently establish eligibility under this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects the Petitioner may have applied for 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS may approve an 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
does not establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time the Petitioner filed her petition. USCIS regulations 
affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b){l). A visa petition may not be approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes 
eligible under a new set of facts. See Matter of Michelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). As 
such, we have considered the salary the prospective employer proposes to offer the Petitioner, but conclude it is insufficient 
to establish eligibility under this criterion, particularly as the regulatory criterion is written in past tense, e.g. "commanded." 
7 
petition on her behalf, an approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition 
adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Form 1-140 immigrant 
petitions are sometimes denied even after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q 
Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 
F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 
41. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for a "rising star" or other individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 15, 2023 In Re: 27463551 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a figure skating coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant motions that satisfy 
these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N 
Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits a copy ofa January 2022 article from Zippia, "Can I coach 
without a degree?," which reads, in part: "Yes, you can coach without a degree. While you will not 
be teaching at a school, you can coach non-school-related sports and other lifestyle activities. There 
are many different types ofprofessional coaches, from sports to life to career coaches -most ofwhich 
you can do without a college degree." Citing this information, the Petitioner states: 
[The Petitioner] has obtained a coaching position at a sports school that . .. requires a 
professional diploma in physical education in addition to skating abilities. Therefore, 
[the Petitioner] is part ofthe small percentage of figure skating coaches who possess a 
professional diploma in physical education, as not all figure skating coaches have 
obtained such a diploma. According to the International Skating Union's coaching 
requirements, only about 10% offigure skating coaches hold a professional diploma in 
physical education. 
The above information places the Petitioner in a minority among skating coaches, but a relevant 
academic degree does not fulfill any ofthe ten initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and it does not 
place degree holders among a "small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Zippia article lacks an author's attribution, and 
Zippia appears to be a website specializing in career information and advice, rather than figure skating 
or athletic coaching. The a1iicle indicates that coaching jobs "at a school" do require a degree. 
Therefore, among skating coaches at schools, the Petitioner's degree appears to amount to a required 
credential rather than an indicator of extraordinary ability or sustained acclaim. 
The printout from Zippia does not provide new facts that would support a determination of eligibility 
for the benefit the Petitioner seeks. Therefore, the printout does not show proper cause for reopening 
the proceeding. 
We now tum to the second document submitted on motion. The Petitioner's initial submission 
included a translated letter from the executive director ofthe Figure Skating Federation ofthel,_____. 
~--~--__,..... After the Petitioner submitted that letter, the Director informed the Petitioner, in a 
request for evidence (RFE), that the translator's certification was deficient. The Director listed the 
requirements for such certification, found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner's response to the 
RFE included compliant certifications for newly submitted documents, but not for the previously 
submitted translations. 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we stated that the lack of compliant certifications reduced the 
evidentiary weight of the affected translations. The Petitioner now submits a new translation 
certificate for the letter from thd IThe Director's RFE afforded the Petitioner the opportunity 
to address the deficiency in the translation certification. The Petitioner did not overcome the 
deficiency at that time. The submission ofthe new certification at this late date does not show proper 
cause to reopen the proceeding. When a petitioner responds to an RFE, all requested materials must 
be submitted together at one time. Submission of only some of the requested evidence will be 
considered a request for a decision on the record. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll). Cf Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (holding that evidence will not be considered on appeal when the 
affected party was previously put on notice of required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it). We will further discuss the information in thel Iletter below, in the context of 
the motion to reconsider. 
Because the new materials submitted on motion do not show proper cause for reopening, we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. 
We will now address the motion to reconsider. In our appellate decision, we stated: "The Petitioner has 
performed as a figure skating competitor and intends to work as a coach and choreographer for figure 
skaters. She attained her foreign bachelor's degree in physical education and began coaching one year 
after receiving her degree." On motion, the Petitioner asserts that the above "statement is not entirely 
accurate," because the Petitioner "has over 10 years of coaching experience, which she began 
2 
immediately after her figure skating career. Additionally, she has provided her resume in the initial filing, 
which likely includes her coaching experience." The quoted passage from our appellate decision was a 
brief summary ofthe Petitioner's career, rather than a basis for dismissal ofthe appeal. Neither the length 
of the Petitioner's experience nor the timing of her degree are relevant criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), nor do they inherently demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim as required 
by section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
As noted in our prior decision, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth ten criteria, listing types 
ofevidence that could, subject to a final merits determination, help to establish extraordinary ability. The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven ofthese crite1ia. We agreed with the Director that the 
Petitioner had satisfied only one ofthem, relating to judging the work of others. 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses two of the regulatory criteria, discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's membership in the I I but 
concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the membership meets the regulatory requirements: 
The evidence did not show that the memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. The beneficiary, for example, did 
not provide the bylaws or other membership requirements to show that outstanding 
achievements are a condition of membership, and that the judging of membership is 
comprised of recognized national or international experts. Here, the beneficiary's 
evidence is insufficient to meet the regulat01y requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she had established the reputations of thel IPresidium 
members who judge candidates for membership, and that she had established the importance of her 
activities. In dismissing the appeal, we concluded that the Petitioner did "not remedy the lack ofmaterial 
relating to membership requirements." 
On motion, as noted above, the Petitioner resubmits a letter from the executive director of the I , I 
with a new translation certification. The Petitioner does not, however, establish that we erred in our prior 
decision. The letter states that membership "requires outstanding achievements evaluated by recognized 
national or international experts," and that thel !accepted the Petitioner into membersh~ 
general, unanimous decision of all 7 members ofthe Presidium of the Federation present." TheL___J 
is a regional association, rather than a national or international one, and the Petitioner does not establish 
that Presidium membership requires recognition beyond the local vicinity ofl I Also, the letter 
does not cite to any bylaws or other primary evidence to corroborate the assertion that thel Irequires 
outstanding achievement as a condition for admission to membership. The minutes of the July 2020 
Presidium meeting, also in the Petitioner's initial submission, indicate that three individuals were denied 
membership because ofinsufficient information concerning their "activities in thel I-" The 
document does not say what sort of"activities" are necessary to qualify for membership. 
3 
The Petitioner has not shown that we erred in concluding that she had not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion because she wrote an article in championat.com with the 
translated title "Why should you sta1t skating? 7 good reasons from the coach." In the denial notice, the 
Director noted the lack ofa complete English translation, and stated that the Petitioner had not established 
"that championat.com qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or some other fo1m of major 
media." In our dismissal ofthe appeal, we stated: 
As the Petitioner operates outside of academia, she should demonstrate the article was 
written for learned persons in the field. The article does not meet this requirement as it 
appears intended for those who do not compete in her athletic field, and she offers no 
arguments to the contrary. As the Petitioner has not shown this evidence qualifies as a 
scholarly article, it would serve no purpose to evaluate whether it appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that she has established that championat.com is a major publication. As 
we observed in our decision, we need not consider that question until the Petitioner establishes that her 
article is scholarly. Outside of academia, we consider a "scholarly article" to be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge ofa field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner asserts, on motion: 
The article in question is composed of 7 distinct sections that highlight the physical 
education benefits of figure skating. It should be noted that these sections are not based 
on abstract observations or solely on [the Petitioner's] personal opinion, but rather reflect 
the profound knowledge and expertise that she has gained through her experiences in the 
field, as well as her formal education in Physical Education at the university level. 
The definition of a scholarly publication rests on the knowledge and expertise of the intended readers, 
rather than that of the author. The Petitioner has not shown that her article is a scholarly effort aimed at 
such readers. Rather, the translated introductory fragment ofthe article reads, in part: "Like any physical 
activity, ice skating develops and strengthens muscles that are not involved in everyday life. And also, 
ofcourse, burns calories. But that's not all. I will tell you about seven reasons that will convince you to 
get up on skates this winter." The Petitioner had previously submitted a letter from another figure skater, 
who stated that the purpose of the article was to "make a non-skater start to learn to skate." 
The Petitioner has not established that she wrote a scholarly article for a specialized readership, as 
opposed to a popular article for a general readership. Therefore, she has not shown proper cause for 
reconsideration. 
4 
Beyond the above arguments, the Petitioner states that she has no desire to return to her native Russia, 
due to factors such as her disagreement with that country's war with Ukraine. We do not question the 
depth or sincerity of the Petitioner's beliefs in this regard, but the classification she seeks in this 
proceeding is contingent on sustained national and international acclaim, which she has not established. 
In our prior decision, we granted one ofthe ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and reserved discussion 
on two others. Ifthe Petitioner had satisfied both ofthe reserved criteria, then the discussion would have 
proceeded to a final merits determination, but such a dete1mination would not have resulted in approval 
ofthe petition. The Petitioner's evidence shows that she is a knowledgeable and experienced skater and 
coach, but the record does not show that she has attained sustained national or international acclaim as 
required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, and it does not show that she has risen to the very top of 
her field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Nevertheless, we will briefly discuss here one ofthe two reserved criteria, to show that we and the Director 
did not eIT by omitting the final merits determination. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed several instances ofpublished material. In response to the RFE, however, 
she narrowed her claim to an appearance on Utro Rossii on the Russia 1 television network. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner had not established that she had appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she had previously submitted 
evidence showing that Russia 1 is a major television channel in Russia. 
The published material should be about the person. The person and the person's work need not be the 
only subject ofthe material, but the material should include a substantial discussion of the person's work 
in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 appendix. The translated transcript does 
not indicate that the television segment on Russia 1 was about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the 
field. Rather, the transcript indicates that the focus ofthe piece was children learning to skate. The piece 
included footage of the Petitioner teaching a group of children, and talking to a reporter about changing 
attitudes in the field. The Petitioner briefly appeared in this television segment, but it is not about her and 
her work in the field. Rather, she appears to have been shown as a representative example ofa skating 
teacher, while the reporter discussed general statistics and information rather than the Petitioner's career 
or recognition. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy at the time we issued 
our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 21, 2023 In Re: 26967863 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and a high salary). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is currently a professional baseball player for thel Iin Major League 
Baseball (MLB). Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not satisfy the awards, membership, published material, and salary criteria. After reviewing all the 
evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
We find that the Petitioner meets the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the published 
material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)Tiii), I 
and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Specifically, the Petitioner received a 
2019 MLB American League "Player of the Week A ward" as an outstanding player. In addition, he 
has been the subject of articles in major media, including ESPN.com, USA Today.com, and MLB.com. 
Furthermore, as a starting outfielder for thd Ithe Petitioner has performed in critical 
role for a distinguished organization and has commanded a high salary relative to other professional 
baseball players. Accordingly, the record indicates that he has satisfied at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
will analyze his accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes 
are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We evaluate 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility 
for this classification. 
The Petitioner has played as an outfielder for the~-----~ in MLB since 2018. He received 
MLB 's "Player of the Week A ward" in 2019 and was named as a finalist for the 2020 American 
League '1 I' for his position. In addition, the record includes sports 
coverage of the Petitioner's offensive and defensive play in media such as SBNation.com, 
WhiteCleatBeat.com, ESPN.com, USAToday.com, and MLB.com. The Petitioner also submitted 
copies of his MLB player contracts showing that he commanded a salary of $2,450,000 in 2022 and 
$3,550,000 in 2023. 
With regard to the Petitioner's professional baseball career, S-B-, who Forbes magazine ranked as the 
2022 "most powerful agent in North American team sports," writes: 
[The Petitioner] is entering his prime and his talents have established himself as one of 
the best outfielders in baseball. He made his Major League debut in 2018 and has 
performed against the highest level ofcompetition available in the world. Since 2018, 
his defense has been recognized among the best in the Major Leagues by consistently 
receiving votes for the prestigious 'I tas one of the best 
defensive outfielders in the American League .... And, while [the Petitioner's] defense 
is well-known, his offense is even more impressive. Since 2018, only 16 other players 
in the game have matched him in home runs ( 62), doubles (88), stolen bases ( 45), walks 
(119), and on-base plus slugging (.768). 
The aforementioned information from S-B-, along with additional corroborating evidence in the 
record, sets the Petitioner apart from other professional baseball players through a "career ofacclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. The totality ofthe evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner possesses 
a level of expertise consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor and that he has sustained national acclaim in his sport. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim and that his achievements 
have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he 
intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 22, 2023 In Re: 26986919 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chess trainer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in athletics. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional chess trainer who has coached youth and adult players for national, 
European, and international competition in Norway, Greece, and Georgia. He intends to continue his 
work as a chess trainer in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can meet four of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the two criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii) 
based on his participation as a judge ofthe work of others in the field and his performance in a leading 
or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. The record 
supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his critical role as a coach for the Women's National Team, 
which earned a silver medal at the~---------~in 2022. However, for the reasons 
discussed below, we will withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies the 
criterion relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and 
(v), based on his memberships in professional associations that require outstanding achievements and 
his original contributions of major significance in his field. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, and 
that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements based 
on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment ofdues or fees do 
not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
In a cover letter that accompanied the initial petition filing, the Petitioner stated that he "is a member 
of numerous Chess Clubs and Associations, and he has a sufficiently high Chess Rating to be a FIDE 
Certified Chess Trainer." The Petitioner also stated that he is a "National Master of the US Chess 
Federation." 
The Petitioner provided a certificate from the U.S. Chess Federation indicating that he achieved the 
official title of National Master in October 2021, accompanied by a letter from the organization 
welcoming him into "a select circle of chess players." The Petitioner also submitted his profile page 
from the International Chess Federation (Federation Internationale de Echecs or FIDE) which lists his 
world, continental and national ranks, his chess rating I land a FIDE Instructor title. He provided 
a certificate issued by the FIDE Trainers' Commission ofthe Norwegian Chess Federation, indicating 
his successful participation in a two-day FIDE Trainers' Seminar in Norway in June 2018. Finally, 
the Petitioner submitted an excerpt from the FIDE Handbook which includes the organization's 
"Regulations for the Titles of Trainers." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director observed that "no evidence or claim was submitted for 
this criterion" in reference to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner did not address the membership 
criterion in his response to the RFE. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erroneously discounted the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. He emphasizes that he "is a highly ranked member of [FIDE] and is a 
FIDE Trainer; a member of the Norwegian Chess Federation; and he is a U.S. National Master in 
Chess." He further states: 
The process ofbecoming FIDE Instructor and Trainer is complex and multistage. The 
first step is to receive a recommendation from the National Federation as well as 
required experience and education. A candidate should also possess a minimum FIDE 
rating of 1800. [The Petitioner] has become a FIDE Instructor in 2018 and is currently 
a FIDE Arbiter and Trainer." 
While we agree with the Petitioner that the Director appears to have overlooked his claim that he meets 
this criterion, the submitted evidence does not establish that the Petitioner is a member in an 
association that requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner emphasizes on appeal that he is a member ofthe Norwegian Chess Federation and has 
achieved the title of National Master with the U.S. Chess Federation. While he provided a certificate 
documenting his National Master title, he did not document his membership in the Norwegian Chess 
Federation, nor did he provide evidence of the membership requirements related to either of these 
3 
organizations and his specific level of membership. Without this evidence, we cannot evaluate 
whether either of these memberships satisfies all elements of the plain language of the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that he satisfies this 
criterion based on his membership in the Norwegian or U.S. Chess Federations. 
The Petitioner states on appeal that he is currently a FIDE Trainer and FIDE Arbiter, but he has not 
submitted evidence to document that he has received these titles from FIDE and that he held one or 
both titles when he filed the petition in September 2022. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (stating that a 
petitioner must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing and must continue to 
be eligible through adjudication). Further, although the Petitioner provided an excerpt from the FIDE 
Handbook with "Regulations for the Titles of Trainers," he did not submit comparable evidence 
regarding FIDE' s requirements for granting the title of Arbiter. 
As noted, the Petitioner's FIDE profile indicates he was a FIDE Instructor as of2018, and he submitted 
evidence that he successfully completed a FIDE Trainers' seminar that fulfilled part of the 
organization's requirements for this title. According to the submitted regulations for the FIDE 
Trainers' System, the title of FIDE Instructor requires an application. To be qualified as a FIDE 
Instructor, one must be a trainer of a national champion or junior or youth champion, have achieved a 
career high rating of at least 2000, and complete a successful professional skills evaluation as a 
participant in a FIDE Trainer's Commission Seminar. 1 The FIDE Handbook includes evaluation tables 
describing a points system used for determining a person's title. Points are awarded based on an 
individual's highest FIDE or national rating, student results, published material, years of experience, 
and written examinations. 
According to the FIDE Handbook, the title recommendations are made by the lecturer in charge ofthe 
FIDE Trainers' Seminar, endorsed by the FIDE Trainers' Commission, and then submitted for 
approval "by either the PB, EB or GA." The regulations indicate that upon approval a trainer will 
receive "an official diploma and badge" with their photograph and license validity. We note that the 
Petitioner did not submit a copy of his official diploma and badge from FIDE as evidence that he 
passed through all stages of the approval process to become a licensed FIDE Instructor. 
Further, while receiving approval for the FIDE Instructor title appears to require a certain baseline 
level of experience, skill and achievement as a chess player and instructor ( evaluated using a points 
system), the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support a finding that a FIDE member's 
achievement of that title requires "outstanding achievements" as judged by national or international 
experts in the field. The level of membership afforded to the person must show that to obtain that 
level of membership, the person was judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. The submitted 
regulations from the FIDE Handbook, without additional context, do not establish that the minimum 
requirements for the "Instructor" title are judged by experts as "outstanding achievements" nor is there 
evidence that the individual( s) who make the final decision to approve the title are recognized national 
1 The FIDE Handbook indicates that there are two lower classes of instructor/trainer (National Instructor and 
Developmental Instructor) that are below FIDE Instructor, and two higher classes of instructor/trainer (FIDE Trainer and 
FIDE Senior Trainer. with the latter requiring significantly higher levels of achievement such as publishing books and 
manuals, serving as a FIDE seminar lecturer, founding chess schools that have developed titled players, and originating 
and developing educational systems or programs in the field.) 
4 
or international experts in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To establish that he meets this criterion, the Petitioner submitted printouts of 'Tournament Details" 
for four chess tournaments from the website of the International Chess Federation. This evidence 
identified the Petitioner as "ChiefArbiter" for the Open Tournament in,___~_______ ____. 
held in Greece in 2012, and as one of several "Deputy Arbiters" for three youth championship 
tournaments held in Greece in 2009, 2010, and 2012. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this evidence, but advised the Petitioner that additional 
documentation would be required to establish that he meets the plain language of this criterion, based 
on the nature ofthe activities he performed at these tournaments. The Petitioner's response to the RFE 
did not address his role as an arbiter at the above-referenced events, but the Director nevertheless 
concluded, without additional explanation, that he satisfied this criterion. 
The record does not contain evidence describing the activities the Petitioner performed in his capacity 
as a deputy or chief arbiter at the referenced chess tournaments. If the petitioner simply enforced the 
rules of a match and sportsmanlike competition, then his participation as an arbiter cannot be said to 
have involved evaluating or judging the work of the competitors. Without further evidence that he 
judged the work of others, such as evidence that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in 
choosing the ultimate winner, evidence regarding officiating is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner claims that he can meet 
four of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). While he established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we conclude, for 
the reasons provided above, that he did not provide evidence demonstrating that he satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(ii) and (iv). Accordingly, he cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which relates to 
original contributions ofmajor significance in the field, cannot change the outcome ofthe appeal. The 
Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion demonstrated that the 
Petitioner made contributions that were significant for individual chess players and for organizations 
that employed him but did not establish that he made original contributions of major significance that 
impacted the broader field ofchess or influenced the work ofothers. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
additional evidence and asserts that he made a "significant impact ... on the popularization of the 
game of Chess inl las a whole," based on his successful coaching of thel INational 
Women's Chess Team. However, we will reserve discussion of this criterion and the Petitioner's 
appellate arguments related to this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
5 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we 
do not need to provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that 
while the Petitioner has achieved some significant success as a chess trainer, the record does not 
support a determination that he has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 22, 2023 In Re: 27492815 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sports journalist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had satisfied only 
one ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled 
only one criterion -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he 
meets two additional evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on articles posted on the internet and printed 
in publications. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material. 1 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether the evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field, which contains the required 
title, date, and author. If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide 
whether professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
Initially, the Petitioner provided an article posted on adevaldes.com. Neither the article nor the 
accompanying translation includes the article's author. In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article 
posted on lado.mx with both the article and accompanying translation reflecting the author as I I 
I I Both postings show the same article. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), 
the Petitioner offered an updated article with translation posted on adevaldes.com indicating the 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
authorship by 'j f '2 Although the record contains the same article posted on two 
different internet sites, the Petitioner did not explain how they possess two different authors. The 
Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to 
where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material 
inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other evidence submitted 
in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. Furthermore, the article does not demonstrate 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Rather, the article discusses the concept 
of sports entertainment with a brief mention of the Petitioner relating to his description of the article's 
topic. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the Petitioner initially submitted an article posted on wpbf.com; however, the article did 
not contain the author of the material. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner claimed the 
article was authored byl Iand the Petitioner repeats this assertion on appeal. However, 
the Petitioner does not corroborate his assertion with supporting documentation showing the 
authorship of the article. Thus, the Petitioner did not establish the required author of the material 
consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, the article does not indicate 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field. Instead, the article discusses 
Miami, Florida being selected to host the 2026 World Cup with a quote by the Petitioner indicating 
how he loves soccer. 
Likewise, the Petitioner initially provided an article, with translation, published in Milenio. However, 
neither the article nor translation indicates the author of the article. In response to the Director's RFE, 
the Petitioner claimed the article was authored by I I and the Petitioner repeats this 
assertion on appeal. The Petitioner does not corroborate his assertion with supporting documentation 
nor does not article or translation show the author. Furthermore, similar to the postings on 
adevales.com and lado.mx, the article discusses the sports entertainment approach, including 
background information provided by the Petitioner, but the article does not reflect published material 
about the Petitioner consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a self-authored article published 
in Reforma and posted on reforma.com. However, the article discusses the sports entertainment 
concept and is not published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. 
Notwithstanding the above, the record contains two articles posted on lanoticia.com and produ.com 
reflecting published material about the Petitioner relating to his work, including the required titles, 
dates, and authors of the material. However, the Petitioner did not establish the major status of either 
website. 3 Although he provided visit figures from similarweb.com for lanoticia.com (367,000 visits) 
and produ.com (147,000 visits), the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance or relevance of 
these numbers to show the major status of the websites. 4 The Petitioner, for example, did not compare 
2 Both the article and translation spell the author's first name as 
3 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record reflect, the professional nature of the websites. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2(B)(2)(appendix) (providing that evidence ofpublished material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the person should establish that the circulation 
( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material). 'I I 
3 
the data to the data of other websites enjoying major status. Moreover, similarweb.com reflects that 
lantocia.com and produ.com have global rankings of 180,952 and 429,264, respectively. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how such global rankings are tantamount to major media status. 5 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted "About" screenshots from lanoticia.com indicating the digital 
version "is a local and independent communication medium" and screenshots from 
noticiasnewswire.com advertising that produ.com "has been the leading provider of content for 
television, advertising and technology professionals in Latin America, Spain and the US Hispanic 
Market" and "offers three free newsletters that reach more than 30,000 decision-makers and executive 
professionals every day." However, the Petitioner did not offer independent, objective evidence 
establishing the major status of the websites. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. 
July 6, 2007), aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the 
cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). 6 Further, 
the self-serving assertions do not demonstrate that the websites enjoy major media standings. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criterion relating to published material. Although the 
Petitioner also claims eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 7 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
5 For the same reasons, although he submitted figures from similarweb.com for adevaldes.com, lado.mx, wpbf.com, and 
reforma.com, the Petitioner did not show the significance or relevance of the visits or numbers. In addition, while the 
Petitioner provided internet visitor statistics from similarweb.com and statista.com for milenio.com, the record does not 
reflect an article posted on milenio.com. Rather, the Petitioner presented evidence of an aiticle printed in Milenio and did 
not offer evidence establishing the major status of Milenio. Sec, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 
WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
6 The Petitioner also provided a self-serving "Media Kit" for~I----~ 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing him among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 26, 2023 In Re: 25753293 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director, producer, and screenwriter, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria, ofwhich he must meet at least three. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have worked as a director, screenwriter, and creative producer in the television 
and entertainment industry in Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet eight of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions ofmajor significance; 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met none of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that the Director's decision ignored probative evidence in the record, failed to give 
evidentiary weight to credible documentation, and applied erroneous legal standards. After reviewing 
all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards and failed to 
consider relevant evidence with respect to several criteria. Based on these deficiencies, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
2 
The first step of the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to 
determining whether the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. This limited determination 
does not require an assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a petitioner's sustained 
national or international acclaim. Rather, the question of whether a petitioner is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys sustained national or 
international acclaim should only be addressed in the second step of the analysis (final merits 
determination). 
Here, the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence submitted with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), and (viii) by evaluating whether the Petitioner's achievements have 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. Under Kazarian, this issue is only assessed 
after it has been determined that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criteria. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
For example, in determining that the Petitioner did not meet the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Director found that the record did not establish that the Petitioner's judging 
experience has sustained national or international acclaim or places him among the small percentage 
at the very top ofhis field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that despite acknowledging that he served 
as a jury member at film festivals including l I 
the Director "conflated the step 1 ( evidentiary) and step 2 (merits) under Kazarian," and we agree with 
that assertion. The Director's analysis of this criterion was not appropriate, as it did not evaluate 
whether the evidence submitted objectively satisfies the plain language ofthe regulatory criterion. As 
the matter will be remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this 
criterion. 
We further note that the Director discounted many of the Petitioner's submissions because they were 
not accompanied by a certified English translation in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The 
Director correctly indicates that any document containing foreign language submitted to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) shall be accompanied by a full English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and has certified that they are 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Upon review, 
however, the translated documents in the record did in fact include the required certifications attesting 
to the accuracy and completeness of the translations and to the competence of the translator. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires 
that he provide evidence of his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor, the Director declined to afford evidentiary weight to 
the Petitioner's 2008 TEFI award for screenwriting because it was not accompanied by the required 
certification from the translator. As noted above and contrary to the Director's finding, the certificate 
was in fact accompanied by the required translator certification which was appended to the document. 
Additionally, the Director determined that the Petitioner provided insufficient evidence that this prize 
was nationally or internationally recognized. Although the record contains documentation regarding 
the awarding entity and media articles relating to the award, the Director deemed the articles not 
3 
probative because the Petitioner did not establish that they were published in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, a requirement that does not appear in the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 1 On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under 
this criterion. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's claim that he served in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director erred by misapplying the law and disregarding submitted evidence. The 
Director stated that the criterion requires a leading or critical role for an "entire organization, as 
opposed to a department or component within it." (Emphasis in original). The Director's analysis is 
incorrect as USCIS policy states that the leading or critical role may be "for an organization, 
establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment." See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, the Director 
also determined that the Petitioner's claimed role was not representative of sustained national or 
international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work in the field. This analysis must be made in a final 
merits determination, but is not appropriate in evaluating whether the evidence submitted objectively 
satisfies the regulatory criterion. The Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this 
criterion. 
Similarly, the Director inappropriately imposed requirements when evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires "evidence of the display of the [individual's] work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases." The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
related to shows, videos, projects, and films upon which he worked but stated: 
The interpretation that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) is limited to visual arts is 
longstanding and has been upheld by a federal district court. The 10 criteria in the 
regulations are designed to cover different areas, and not every criteria will apply to 
every occupation. As you are not a visual artist and have not created tangible pieces of 
art that were on display "at artistic exhibitions or showcases" you have not submitted 
qualifying evidence that meets the plain language requirements of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). (Emphasis in original). 
We note that the plain language of this regulation does not exclude performing artists or limit its 
application solely to visual artists (such as painters or sculptors). We disagree with the Director's 
interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual 
artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own work product 
and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the submitted 
evidence to determine whether it satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Further, the denial decision does not appear to reflect full consideration of the submitted evidence. 
For instance, while the decision correctly indicated that user-edited websites such as Wikipedia are 
1 The Director also incorrectly imposed this requirement in evaluating the Petitioner's evidence regarding his original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
4 
not reliable primary sources of information, the Petitioner did not rely entirely on user-edited websites 
to support his claims. Moreover, as stated above, the Director declined to consider press articles 
submitted in support ofthe Petitioner's eligibility under 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v) because he 
determined they were not published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
a requirement that does not appear in the plain language of either of these criteria. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for the reasons discussed above, the 
Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, they 
were not required to conduct a final merits determination ofwhether the Petitioner has established that 
he possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one ofthe small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 29, 2023 In Re: 27544973 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140 petition, concluding the Petitioner 
did not establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reopen. The Petitioner 
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
While we may not individually discuss each piece of evidence the Petitioner submits with his current 
motion, we have reviewed and considered each one. We incorporate our prior decision by reference 
and will repeat only certain facts as necessary. In our appellate decision, we agreed with the Director 
that the Petitioner did not submit the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. 1 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
Regarding the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner maintains that he received 
a Red Dot award. The evidence indicates that this award was given to thel !Portable charging 
device and the company that designed it. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he was named as a 
recipient of a Red Dot award. He also points to various student awards he claims to have received, 
but his motion does not include evidence indicating that they are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field electrical engineering. Without further evidence 
1 We determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , the judging criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , and the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . The Petitioner did not 
claim to meet any other criteria on appeal. 
regarding their national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that his claimed awards are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. 
As evidence for the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner points to his graduate 
and undergraduate courses, practical training, and work for both .___________ ___, The 
documentation presented, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has participated, either 
individually or on a panel, as the judge of the work of others in the field of electrical engineering or 
an allied field. 
With respect to the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner offers 
documentation of his work involving development of a "high tech chip I I process, an I I 
prototype" battery module, a 'l !pressure theory," water and lighting infrastructure, and 
I I lamps. The Petitioner's descriptions and photographs of his work are not sufficient to 
demonstrate its major significance in the field of electrical engineering. The Petitioner's statements 
do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating 
documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that he has made to the field 
that have been considered to be of "major significance." For instance, he did not offer evidence 
indicating that his prototypes and other developmental work have influenced the field of electrical 
engineering to the extent that they are ofmajor significance in his field. 
The Petitioner also provides new arguments and evidence under the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the leading or critical 
role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
However, as the Petitioner did not submit these documents before the Director, either at the time he 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims 
and documents in our adjudication ofthis motion. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence 
submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of 
proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). The 
Petitioner does not adequately explain why he did not present these documents before the Director. 
Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence to determine his eligibility under the applicable 
criteria for the first time on motion. 
Regardless, even if we were to consider the Petitioner's new arguments and evidence, none of his 
documents offered on motion meet the requirements of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (viii), and (ix). For example, the Petitioner contends that his involvement in 
developing a University ofl lsolar powered electric vehicle, a I I charging 
device, al ILamp, and al Icyber series lamp satisfy the membership criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). This documentation, however, does not constitute evidence of association 
memberships. Without evidence indicating that the Petitioner is a member of an association requiring 
outstanding achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or 
international experts, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of the 
membership criterion. As evidence for the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
the Petitioner submitted a December 2015 '-----------------------' 
2 
Laboratory Final Report" he authored, but the documentation does not indicate that the article was in 
a professional or major trade publication or other form of major media as required by the criterion. 
With respect to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F .R. § 204.S(h) 3 viii , the Petitioner points 
to his product line setup and invoice system forl !lights and lights. He also 
discusses his work relating to the I I wireless charger, the.__ ______ __. plasma process, 
and the I I Lamp prototype. The Petitioner's evidence, however, does not show that his 
involvement in these projects demonstrates a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. 
As evidence for the salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner provided 
documentation relating to his interviews with Intel and NerdPower, invitations from prospective 
employers, a scholarship froml IPharmaceutical Production Company, and bank loans. 
This documentation, however, does not show that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration relative to other electrical engineers. 
The evidence on motion does not overcome our prior findings and demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Nor has the 
Petitioner provided new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the appeal. The scope of a 
motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.S(a)(l)(i), (ii). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew. The underlying petition remains 
denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 29, 2023 In Re: 27416381 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocal coach and singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and artistic display). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, 
published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, artistic display of his 
work, performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations, and commercial 
successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to performing in a leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
published material, judging, and commercial successes criteria. 3 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that he meets the published material, judging, artistic display, and commercial successes criteria, and 
that he has satisfied the standard ofproof in this matter. Except where a different standard is specified 
by law, a petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance 
of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Under the preponderance of the 
evidence standard, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner's claim is "probably true." Id. at 
376. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he has also satisfied the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 4 The 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Director's decision did not address the Petitioner's claim ( offered in response to the Director's request for evidence) 
that he satisfied the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
4 With respect to meeting the judging criterion, the record includes a letter from the director of T-C-, a Christian music 
institute "that prepares worship leaders and music ministers," indicating that the Petitioner has served on "final exam 
juries" to determine if music trainees met their graduation requirements. Regarding his fulfillment of the artistic display 
2 
Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the basis for denial of the petition through fulfillment of three 
regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, the record does not support approval of the petition. Meeting three of 
the initial evidentiary criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the 
Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that 
he has sustained national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
I criterion, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that he has performed at music exhibitions such as the Florida 
land multiple other concerts in Florida. While the aforementioned documentation meets the initial evidence 
requirements of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his 
participation as a judge and conce11 performances are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim in the 
performing arts or that they place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2023 In Re: 26842681 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a bachelor of engineering degree in civil engineering and approximately 20 years 
of professional experience with employers in Pakistan and United Arab Emirates, primarily working 
in the construction engineering field. Since 2007, he has worked forl I I lwhere he served as a team leader for advanced and specialized construction systems (from 
2007 to 2018), and, since 2018, as a commercial manager for concrete admixture systems and cement 
solutions. He indicates his intention to continue his work in the same field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related 
to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) and (viii) and concluded that he satisfied only one 
criterion. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate his 
performance in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished 
reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also provided evidence of published material in professional 
publications or major media and evidence of his original contributions of major significance in the 
field sufficient to meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v). 1 We will discuss the evidence 
submitted in support of these two criteria below. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that he had not established eligibility under criterion (i), 
related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. Additionally, the Petitioner did not claim 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (vii), (ix) or (x) before the Director or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides 
no evidence or arguments addressing these six criteria on appeal, we consider these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of 
R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 40 I F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). 
citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731201 L 2011 
WL 4711885 at *L *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
2 
In addition, the Petitioner has consistently indicated that he satisfies one of the criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) based on evidence of his "recognition by authorities in his field as an engineer of 
extraordinary ability." However, we emphasize that "recognition by authorities in the field" is not one 
of the enumerated regulatory criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Further, the Petitioner has not 
claimed that he is seeking to have this evidence, which consists of testimonial letters from colleagues 
and business associates and evidence related to the companies that employ them, considered as 
"comparable evidence" under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). 
In order to succeed on a comparable evidence claim, a petitioner must establish that one ofthe criteria 
at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) is not readily applicable to their occupation. If a petitioner makes such a 
showing, users will evaluate the evidence to determine whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation. Here, the Petitioner has not articulated a comparable 
evidence claim. Further, claims that users should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are 
not persuasive. 2 We will consider the submitted testimonial evidence under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
and note that such evidence would also be properly considered in a final merits determination if the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of ten criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner did not specifically claim eligibility under this criterion at the time of filing or in 
response to the Director's request or evidence (RFE) but indicates on appeal that he previously 
provided evidence that meets this criterion. Any published material submitted to satisfy this criterion 
must be about the individual petitioner and relate to their work in the field, and not just relate to their 
employer or other organization with which they are associated. Further the evidence must identify the 
title, date and author of the material, identify the name of the publication, and include evidence to 
demonstrate that the material was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles published m the same January 2016 issue of a print 
publication called which a ears to be a ublication. The three articles 
are titled' 
.__----------------~----------.,-------.-~-----' None 
ofthe three articles mention the Petitioner or his work as an employee o ~-~ The Petitioner draws 
particular attention to the .________ ____.article, noting that the Petitioner received an award at 
this event, but, as noted, the article does not mention him nor does it mention that awards were granted 
at this event. Even if the Petitioner had established that one or more of these articles is about him, he 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 204.5(h)(4)). 
3 
did not provide evidence thatl lis a professional publication, major trade publication or other 
major media. Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other 
major media publications should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high 
compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is. 3 
The Petitioner also states that his employer published a profile about him but does not identify where 
the profile was published or provide the date or author of the publication, as required by the plain 
language of this criterion. Based on the format and contents of the profile, we cannot determine 
whether it was written and published by his employer. For example, the submitted document uses 
several different font types and sizes that appear inconsistent with an official publication and includes 
private information such as the value of the Petitioner's salary and benefits package, the addresses of 
property he owns, and a valuation ofthis property. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business 
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that they 
have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. 
In his personal statement the Petitioner laced articular em basis on his role in engineering concrete 
for the construction o notin that he and his team "overcame 
numerous en es and world records to 
.______________________ __, He also notes his involvement in other 
major projects that involved "innovating various concepts and technologies which help to conserve 
energy, save time in construction with green building systems for mega projects." Finally, he indicates 
that he has "developed innovative new solutions and blazed a trail for other engineers and teams by 
using these new solutions in actual projects." 
The Petitioner primarily relies upon several support letters from business associates and coworkers to 
establish his eligibility under this criterion. The authors indicate that the Petitioner, during his tenure 
atl Icontributed to major building projects, including the construction ofl IThe letters 
support a determination that the Petitioner is a highly experienced civil engineer with advanced 
technical skills and expertise in his field, and that he has offered solutions to engineering problems 
posed by the major building projects to which he was assigned. However, the letters do not describe 
a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of civil or construction engineering, 
provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 4 Nor 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
4 Id. 
4 
do the letters speak in sufficient detail regarding the "innovative new solutions" the Petitioner 
references in his own statement, or specify how he has "blazed a trail for other engineers." 
A letter from a procurement manager at I Istates that 
the Petitioner, as a representative of I provided "extraordinary services" to I I 
Specifically, he states that the Petitioner has offered services in the area of technical construction, 
chemical application services, various solutions related to advanced construction systems, and "value 
engineering" that have helped I !deliver "various mega projects" in UAE, and that his company 
is "fully satisfied" with the Petitioner's knowledge and expertise. The general manager of anotherI Iclient, I I similarly praises the Petitioner as "technically and commercially 
extraordinarily competent" to solve technical challenges. The general manager of I I 
.___________ _. credits the Petitioner with offering "extraordinary solutions and services," 
reports that his company "is fully satisfied" with the Petitioner's "technical knowledge and 
extraordinary expertise," and refers to him as "a remarkable executive who has been blessed with 
professional genius, leadership and a clear vision of the future of innovation." While these letters 
offer high praise ofthe Beneficiary's technical and professional skills and ability to provide innovative 
solutions to specific engineering problems, they fall short of identifying with specificity the 
Petitioner's original contributions and their impact or subsequent influence on the engineering field. 
The Petitioner also offered two letters from managers atl IThe country manager for admixture 
systems in UAE, Bahrain and Kuwait confirms that the Petitioner was "technically involved" in mega 
projects that included thel land more than 15 others, that he has received company awards, 
and that he has trained "indirect distribution channels, engineers, and consulting firms" in construction 
and concrete admixture systems. Another manager with I I UAE operations describes the 
Petitioner as an "accomplished expert in various construction segments," and praises his "strong 
technical knowledge ofconstruction materials and techniques," and his "ability to add value to various 
projects." Neither of these letters from the Petitioner's employer articulate how his contributions to 
projects undertaken byl land its clients, or his other contributions to the company, have had an 
impact consistent with original contributions of major significance. We do not doubt that the 
Petitioner's involvement in major building projects has required him to be innovative and to solve 
complex engineering challenges, and that he has been successful in meeting these challenges. 
However, the Petitioner must show that his work has had an impact on the field that extends beyond 
his employer and its clients. The record does not support a finding that the Petitioner developed 
solutions that are now being used by other engineers in the field or otherwise demonstrate how his 
specific contributions have influenced the field. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the authors who provided support letters do not sufficient identify the 
Petitioner's original contributions, nor do they provide specific, detailed information explaining how 
the contributions have been majorly significant in the field. Because the Petitioner has not established 
that his professional achievements are original contributions which have been ofmajor significance to 
the overall field of civil engineering, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
5 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23070824 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a packaging engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed by Amazon in a position titled Senior Product Manager, 
Technical. He is a packaging engineer specializing in pharmaceutical packaging. The record includes 
documentation to demonstrate his achievements and innovations while employed by several 
manufacturing companies and while working atl I State University. The Petitioner intends to 
continue his work as a product manager at Amazon. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the regulatory criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (v), (vi), and 
(viii). He states that the Director did not apply the governing standard of review, preponderance of 
the evidence. 1 The Petitioner also states that the Director failed to consider the totality of the evidence, 
that the Director's review of the evidence included inaccuracies, and that the Director did not address 
certain evidence. After review of the evidence of record, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
established he has met eligibility requirements for criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will remand the matter to 
the Director to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination to 
determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim, his 
status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As evidence of his participation on a panel or as a judge of the work of others in his field, the Petitioner 
submitted letters of endorsement. The Director determined that these letters did not show the 
Petitioner's involvement in reviewing work or provide judging criteria. However, one of the letters 
1 See INS v. Cardoza-Foncesca. 480 U.S. 421,431 (1987) (discussing "more likely than not" as a greater than 50% chance 
of an occurrence taking place). 
2 
from a senior officer atl I that was written during his employment with the company 
sufficiently describes his participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specification for which classification is sought. Specifically, the letter states that he "has contributed 
to judging and advancing of innovative packaging ideas developed by external entrepreneurs and start 
up business communities through " which "holds competitions focused 
on targeting un-met patient needs with winning concept funding." The letter further states that the 
Petitioner was involved in judging packaging concepts in these competitions. This sufficiently 
demonstrates that the Petitioner satisfied the basic elements of this criterion's requirements. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion based on his 
submission of letters of endorsement, stating that evidence must show that his contributions "went 
beyond the business and the business' clients and impacted [ or was] of major significance to the field 
as a whole." We note that most of the letters referenced in the decision are from individuals who 
worked directly with the Petitioner; these individuals provided detailed descriptions of his original 
contributions to the field of packaging engineering. For example, a senior director atl I I I citing the Petitioner's design of a unique plastic alternative to a problematic glass tuberculosis 
tube stated, 'I !solution was so significant to user safety that it was endorsed by the World 
Health Association (WHO)." And with regard to the Petitioner's role as the technical leader for the 
implementation of a new manufacturing platform, another senior executive at I lstated, 
As the technical leader of this project, I I specialized and unique knowledge 
of pharmaceutical operations, polymer technology, and engineering economics was 
crucial to the success and commercialization of [this platform] for pharmaceutical 
packaging. [This] was ground-breaking as it was the first major technology innovation 
for oral solids packaging since the invention of injection blow molding .... 
A senior director at stated of the Petitioner's work, 
[He] enabled D to progress product development in areas previously not possible. 
An example being the development and validation of a package which provides both 
chemical and physical protection to an Orally Dissolving Tablet .... The uniqueness of 
this innovative solution is that the package was required to meet the most stringent 
Child Resistant (CR) standard, due to the safety profile of the drug. Prior tol I 
involvement, a solution meeting the safety and business requirements was not 
available. 
The Director refers to all of the letters of record as "[l]etters of recommendation written by experts" 
and states that, although USCIS may use such letters as advisory opinions submitted by expert 
witnesses, 2 the significance of the Petitioner's work must be demonstrated by preexisting, 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
3 
independent, and objective evidence. While the record does include correspondence from experts in 
the field that purport to objectively evaluate the originality and significance of the Petitioner's 
contributions, the Director appears to have miscategorized all of the endorsement letters as such; the 
detailed letters from the Petitioner's former colleagues were not analyzed as a part of the Director's 
decision, despite the fact that the Director's request for evidence stated that any letters of support 
submitted must include details concerning the Petitioner's contributions. Upon review of the record, 
we conclude that the evidence satisfies the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw 
the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204. 5 (h)(3 )(viii). 
The Director's decision references the letters of endorsement concerning the Petitioner's work and 
states that they do not explain how his accomplishments impacted his employers. However, the 
evidence of record appears to the contrary; several of the letters include detailed descriptions of the 
Petitioner's role and impact on the companies for which he worked. For example, the letter from 
I ]explains that the Petitioner was instrumental in the development and launch 
of a technology that "fundamentally changed production" of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
beverage bottles. The letter provides the following (quoted as written): 
This innovation single handedly allowed! Ito gain global contracts with early 
adopters, such as Pepsi and Coca-Cola. Due to I involvement in this project, 
___ claimed a spot as one of the top global PET packaging mold makers. 
Further, because of his effective leadership, I along with other members of I I leadershi team was the recipient of Canada's 50 Best Managed 
Companies award for consecutive years, recognized by the consortium of 
Additionally, 
because O ___ contributions, was recognized by Profit Magazine 
in "The Hall of Fame" as one of the "Most Profitable Companies in Canada" for 
consecutive years. 
As another example, the letter from a former executive at d discusses how the 
Petitioner's work to solve a complex issue related to leaking detergent containers resulted in securing 
the company's multi-year contract of $80 million per year with its largest client. The letter includes a 
description of how the Petitioner's redevelopment of a capital equipment quoting process resulted in 
new business contracts with British Petroleum and Colgate. Another example includes the 
aforementioned letter froml I that details the Petitioner's critical role in developing 
solutions for the company with regard to child-resistant (CR) packaging. The letter also states that the 
Petitioner's "expertise allow[ed] the business to pursue new innovative formats [through] his work in 
developing a CR sachet in support of the development of a Tylenol granules product for children." 
The record includes evidence that explains how the Petitioner's work as a project manager, plant 
manager, vice president of operations, director of engineering, program director, and director of global 
consumer packaging significantly impacted several notable companies. The Director also determined 
that the record did not include evidence that the organizations for which the Petitioner may have served 
in a critical or leading role have distinguished reputations. As per the letters of endorsement in the 
record and internet open-source information, I I is a multi-million-dollar company and 
4 
generates approximately $2 billion in annual revenues. 
are multi-billion-dollar companies that each employ tens of thousands of employees and 
operate worldwide. We conclude that the evidence of record satisfies the requirements of this 
criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The new decision should include a final merits determination based on an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the 
small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24733484 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mixed martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not explain how the Director erred in any of her findings but instead 
generally stated that the Director "misinterpreted his qualification and arrived at the wrong decision," 
and resubmits several documents it submitted below. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 
1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting 
and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has 
squarely confronted the issue"); see also Urukov v. INS, 55 F.3d 222, 227-28 (7th Cir.1995)(If a 
reviewing tribunal decides that the facts and evaluative judgments prescinding from them have been 
adequately confronted and correctly resolved by a trial judge or hearing officer, then the tribunal is 
free simply to adopt those findings provided the tribunal's order reflects individualized attention to the 
case). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two new letters from Ministry of Education and Sciences of Ukraine 
Committee of Physical Education and Sports ]office (MES). The Petitioner submits 
the first letter as evidence toward satisfaction of the criterion regarding membership in associations in 
the field for which classification is sought, which requires outstanding achievements of their members, 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The letter confirms 
the Petitioner is a "Master of Sports of Ukraine -World Class" and indicates this is an elite 
membership group and membership is obtained by non-team sports athletes if they reach the final of 
a major international tournament. However, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient evidence outlining the eligibility requirements to obtain this title. Absent from the evidence 
is a showing that MES utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the 
achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding, and an 
indication that this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. It is 
insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient 
evidence, which proves the allegation. 1 
The Petitioner submits the second letter from MES as evidence he "performed in a leading role for his 
country in international tournaments." The letter confirms the Petitioner was the "leading athlete in 
his weight class for All Ukrainian Federation of Free-Fight which is a sanctioning organization for all 
mixed martial arts events in Ukraine." However, it does not sufficiently demonstrate the Petitioner 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation and primarily contains bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions without 
specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those contributions rise 
to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the language of the statute 
or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For the above stated reasons, the petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24568537 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 03, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, it 
did not establish that the Petitioner enjoys sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the 
small percentage at the top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). In the alternative, they must provide evidence that meets at least three of the ten listed criteria, 
which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, published material about them in 
qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among other types of evidence. 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that they possess 
the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa classification. See 
Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a post-doctoral researcher at the University of I I where she works in the field of biomolecular 
computational modeling. She earned a Ph.D. in strnctural and computational biology and molecular 
biophysics froml !University in 2015, and has worked in her current position since. She intends 
to continue conducting research in her field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles, her service as 
a judge of the work of others, and her role for an organization having a distinguished reputation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material 
about her and her original scientific contributions of major significance. In addition, she also asserts 
that the Director erred in not considering the entirety of the record in the final merits determination. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). But we disagree with the Director regarding the criterion at 
subsections (v) and (viii) per the analysis below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Under this criterion, an individual must show that published material was about them and related to 
their work in the field, and did not just focus on their employer or another organization. Marketing 
2 
materials intended to sell an individual's products or promote their services will generally not qualify. 
In addition, an individual must show that the publication in which this material appeared was one of 
the qualifying types through evidence comparing its circulation or viewership to other publications 
and/or evidence regarding its intended audience.1 
Two sets of evidence were submitted in support of this criterion. The first was a commentary article 
published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (PNAS) that focused on an article 
authored by the Petitioner and her collaborators in the previous issue of the same journal. While we 
agree with the Petitioner that this article is about her work, she is only referred to in this article as the 
lead author ([Petitioner] et. al.). As there is no further information regarding the Petitioner (such as 
her educational background, career, or other research projects), it is not about her, and the article does 
not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The second set of evidence consists of a press release on the website of the _____ 
, as well as evidence of the reposting of this press release on other websites. 
The press release discusses the K-lab's research on the structure of a protein linked to skin cancer, 
and includes several quotations from the Petitioner regarding her use of a supercomputer at I I to 
conduct simulations. As this article includes details about the Petitioner's background and her 
thoughts concerning future research, it is about her and her work as a researcher. However, we note 
that press releases in general are intended to promote the activities of the organizations that release 
them, and are thus marketing materials. Here, I I press release informs readers about the 
application of its supercomputer and systems to conduct research related to a serious health issue, thus 
promoting its services. In addition, the reposting of press releases by other organizations without 
substantial edits or substantive comment does not constitute additional published material but simply 
the distribution of the original. Finally, the record is insufficient to establish thatl I website is 
a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. We therefore conclude that this 
material also does not qualify under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Director focused primarily on citations to the Petitioner's published work when evaluating the 
evidence submitted under this criterion, concluding that the number of citations to her most cited 
papers was not indicative of contributions of major significance, particularly when compared to the 
citation record of other researchers in the Petitioner's field. On appeal, the Petitioner stresses that 
other types of evidence, including journal impact factors, other metrics, and reference letters, show 
that that she has made contributions of major significance. For example, the Petitioner refers to the 
commentary article in PNAS that was previously discussed, as well as a letter from PNAS stating that 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
such articles are intended to highlight "noteworthy" articles, recommended by a board member, and 
focus on approximately 5% of articles published in the journal. The prestige of PNAS as shown by 
its high ranking and journal impact factor, the selective nature of commentary articles, and the 
statement in the commentary that the research findings described in this paper "have some significant 
implications" indicate that this work is considered influential in the Petitioner's field. Also, Dr. J-C-
of the _____________ who collaborated with the Petitioner on the research 
published in PNAS, writes in her reference letter that the Petitioner's work was essential to the success 
of this study, and that it laid the groundwork for the development of therapies which could prevent the 
spread of breast cancer. 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that the significance and influence of her most-cited paper, 
published in Elife in 2016, is also supported by metrics from the National Institute of Health's (NIH) 
iCite tool. The record includes a report from iCite which indicates that that paper has a relative citation 
ratio (RCR), a metric that takes into account an article's field and date of publication, which ranks in 
the 90th percentile amongst NIH-funded research papers. Dr. D-S-of the University ofl lat 
states that this study, together with the Petitioner's other published work on the 
structure and function of proteins in the MAPK cell signaling pathway, is a major contribution to the 
understanding of how they function and how to develop therapies for when they malfunction. 
Additional reference letters also support the significance of this work, such as Dr. W-C-of I I 
University, who writes that the Petitioner "has distinguished herself through her invaluable studies on 
specific proteins implicated in the MAPK/ERK pathway," which he explains is tied to multiple forms 
of cancer. 
The Petitioner has shown that her research in modelling the structure and function of proteins has been 
published in highly-regarded scientific journals, recognized as noteworthy and significant in one of 
those journals, and has been highly cited by other researchers in her field. This evidence establishes 
that she has made original contributions of major significance in her field. We therefore disagree with 
Director and find that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, an individual must establish that their role for an organization was either leading 
or critical, and that the organization or establishment had a distinguished reputation. A leading role 
should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's 
matching duties. A critical role may be evidenced by an individual 's contributions to an organization 
or establishment that are of significant importance to its activities. Evidence of an individual's 
performance in this role should establish whether it was critical for the organization or establishment, 
or for a division or department. 2 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's role as a post-doctoral researcher in the K­
lab at was qualifying under this criterion. But we note that the evidence submitted under this 
criterion consists primarily of two letters submitted by Dr. K-, the first with the initial filing and the 
second in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). Both letters are exceedingly lengthy 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
4 
( 19 and 43 pages, respectively), address each of the regulatory criteria claimed by the Petitioner along 
with evidence presented in the petition, and use regulatory language throughout. This despite Dr. K­
making no claim in either letter regarding expertise in immigration law. In addition, the second letter 
states that "[W]e received an RFE from your office," but neither Dr. K-nor are a party in this 
matter. 
USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. 
However, where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we 
are not required to accept, or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron International, 
19 T&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm 'r 1988). Here, these concerns, and the fact that parts of these letters 
are exactly repeated in the appeal brief, give rise to significant questions regarding the authorship of 
these letters and whether they reflect the professional opinion of Dr. K-, and we will accordingly give 
them no evidentiary weight. As these letters are the only evidence referenced by the Petitioner in 
support of her role in the K-laboratory, we conclude that the record does not show that she played a 
leading or critical role for that organization or any other within I I 
Further, even if we were to consider these letters, the primary evidence in the record in support of the 
distinguished reputation of Dr. K-' s laboratory consists of pages from the websites of the laboratory 
itself, ______ Because the record does not include sufficient evidence showing that other 
institutions and researchers in the field consider the K-lab to be distinguished, or that it has received 
recognition indicative of its distinction in the field, the Petitioner has not established that it enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. We disagree with the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion and 
withdraw his finding in that respect. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. 
The Director concluded in his decision that the evidence concerning the Petitioner's peer review 
activity, authorship of articles in scientific journals in her field, the number of citations to her published 
work, and role as a post-doctoral researcher in Dr. K-'s lab were insufficient to establish that she 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of her 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not follow USCIS policy and did not 
consider the totality of the evidence in the record when conducting his final merits analysis. We agree. 
Notably, the Director did not consider the materials submitted in support of the third criterion relating 
to published material about the Petitioner, and ignored or glossed over much of the evidence submitted 
in support of the fifth criterion about her original contributions of major significance. On remand, the 
Director should include this evidence in his final merits determination analysis, and should also 
consider the analysis of the three criteria provided above. 
5 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675707 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 6, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the coordinator of the English language pathways at I I Community 
Collegel I awarded the Petitioner with its excellence in teaching award in 2022, and she 
was nominated for thel !Community College System's excellence in teaching award. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (vi) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the criterion of judging the work of others in the same or 
allied field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the criterion met by the Petitioner. And 
on appeal, we conclude that record also demonstrates the Petitioner's authorship of numerous 
scholarly articles in the education field. The Petitioner has therefore satisfied two criteria and must 
satisfy one more to prevail. As discussed below, we conclude she has not. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
2 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. 
( citing to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The 
Petitioner's do not. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I Director of English for Academic Purposes and 
Continuing Education of Non-Native English Speakers atl lwho stated the Petitioner led a leading 
and critical role. I !confirmed the Petitioner commenced employment atl lin 2018 and 
within two years her "leadership abilities stood out" and she was promoted to the position of Coordinator 
of English Language Pathways. In this position, the Petitioner is "in charge of all of the English 
continuing education classes as it relates to curriculum development, judging teacher's learning 
management sites, their completion of tasks, and their classroom management." I I explained 
that the Petitioner is at a "top position within the department." She also stated the Petitioner is the only 
person in the college that has a doctorate in teaching English to speakers of other languages and her 
"expertise in this field is of eminent value." I _further indicated that due to the Petitioner's 
"innovations within the curriculum, choice of courses, and individual outreach to students," enrollment 
into her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year. I I explained that higher 
enrollment in the program is directly connected to program funding. Further, she noted the Petitioner's 
judgement and training led to a higher caliber of teachers for that department. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends she plays a leading and critical role at las noted in the letter from 
and by her achievement of earning the award of excellence in teaching from I Although 
confirms the importance of the Petitioner's contributions as the coordinator of English language pa pathways at she does not establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 
as a whole, such as by showing she influenced its overall reputation or status, or was 
responsible for the success of the organization. Though I I stated that due to the Petitioner's 
efforts, enrollment in her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year, it is not clear from the 
record that the Petitioner's actions and contributions in fact led to the increase. Increase in enrollment 
could be caused by several different factors, and without more information it is impossible to correlate 
the increase to the Petitioner's actions and not some other factor such as changes in the pandemic and 
students returning to campuses, or any other possible factors. While the Petitioner worked on projects 
to enhance I I program, and thereby supported its mission, she did not provide sufficient 
documentary evidence to show that her duties and responsibilities as a coordinator of the English 
language pathways were critical to the greater organization. The Petitioner did not sufficiently explain 
or demonstrate that her role as a coordinator for one program out of several departments in a college 
constitutes a critical or leading role for the overall organization. 
3 
___ does not describe with sufficient detail how the Petitioner played a critical role or leading 
role in the successes enjoyed of1 I Although I I stated that the Petitioner's innovations 
within the curriculum and choice of courses contributed to higher enrollment and fonding for the 
program, she did not provide specific examples. Further, while she stated the Petitioner used her 
expertise to obtain a higher caliber of teachers, these accolades do not demonstrate that her position 
amounts to a leading or critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that benefits their 
employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not established that her work for the college was 
critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner further contends thatl I is a distinguished institution of prominence and 
eminency in the State of North Carolina. As the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a 
critical or leading role for I !however, further analysis of the college's reputation serves no 
meaningful purpose. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the petitioner performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The 
letter considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her field in 
which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. The second 
area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
4 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends she qualifies for this criterion based on two scholarly articles she wrote that 
were published in books. The books were published by 
press, imprint of the higher colleges of technology. The Director found that she had not established 
that her articles were published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states her previously-submitted evidence demonstrates her eligibility for this 
criterion. The record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's articles, which indicate that they are 
scholarly in nature. We therefore find that the Beneficiary published her articles in a professional 
publication and withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. However, because the Petitioner only 
met two of the required three evidentiary criteria, she does not overcome the denial decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483383 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mixed martial arts (MMA) athlete who intends to represent the United States in 
national and international competitions and, "in the future, coach future American athletes for the 
world leadership in this field." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the 
record demonstrates that he only meets one of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), of which he must meet at least three. Specifically, the Director held that he only met the criteria 
for published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the following: (1) that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award; and (2) that he meets these alternate criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contribution at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). For the reasons discussed below, we conclude 
that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements for an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
A. Major International Award 
As determined by the Director, the Petitioner has not established that he has earned a one-time 
achievement of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). This 
regulation is consistent with the legislative history of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A), stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized 
award. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 
200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time 
achievement. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner won an Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) Fight 
Night ______ inl 2016. The record contains an analysis of the fight from 
UPC.com and an article about the fight from bloodyelbow.com. The Petitioner asserts that this 
constitutes a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. However, he has 
not submitted documentation to substantiate this claim or to establish that winning UFC Fight Night 
2 
would constitute a major, international award. Therefore, the evidence in the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has earned a major, internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner continues to contend that he has won major UFC awards, including the Performance of 
the Night and Fight of the Night awards. Although he has provided information regarding UFC, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. For example, the Petitioner did not submit supporting 
documentary evidence in the form of official entry requirements from UFC or other evidence to 
establish the significance of the events within the sport. 
A UFC competition may be open to athletes from throughout a particular country or countries, but this 
factor alone is not adequate to establish that an award or prize from that competition is nationally or 
internationally recognized. The burden is on the Petitioner to demonstrate the level of recognition and 
achievement associated with his awards. The submitted documentation does not establish that the 
Petitioner's awards had a substantial level ofrecognition beyond the context of the event where it was 
presented and was therefore commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted a Brazilian jiu-jitsu belt certificate for his attainment of a black belt 
ranking, but this certificate does not equate to nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in the field. The black belt certificate reflects that the Petitioner earned a promotion in 
rank based on his successful completion of a jiu-jitsu skills test, but he has not established that his 
promotion to this rank constitutes either a prize or an award, nor has he submitted documentation, such 
as media reports, demonstrating that his rank has received national or international recognition. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed membership with UFC and submitted documentation regarding the entity. 
Although the Petitioner provided a printout from UFC's website entitled "Apply to Be a Fighter," the 
document only provides a website address for fighters to create a profile in order to submit their 
application. The documentation does not show UFC's membership requirements. Thus, the Petitioner 
has not shown that membership with UFC requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition 
for membership. Therefore, he does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that his MMA fights and tournaments serve as evidence of his original 
contributions of major significance in the field. While he demonstrated that he participated in MMA­
related events, the Petitioner has not shown how such participation is tantamount to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. He did not, for instance, point to a particular match 
or provide a specific example explaining its impact or unusual importance to MMA. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to consider the letters of support submitted 
by MMA experts and, therefore, it is violation of due process. The letters discuss the Petitioner's 
achievements as an MMA fighter, as well as his signature move called I I The letters, 
however, do not provide specific information explaining how the Petitioner's signature move has 
influenced the MMA field in a significant manner beyond its impact on the Petitioner winning two 
fights in 2014 and 2016. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 1 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that forms the 
basis for meeting this criterion. 2 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the Petitioner has competed in MMA fights and participated in extensive martial arts training, 
he has not shown how these activities equate to "original" athletic contributions of major significance 
in the field. According to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the contributions must be not 
only original but of major significance. While this suggests that he is knowledgeable and skilled in 
MMA, it does not establish that he has made original athletic contributions of major significance in 
the field. Although the Petitioner has earned the admiration of his references, the evidence submitted 
does not demonstrate that his impact on the sport is commensurate with an original athletic 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner assets that he has performed in a leading or critical role for UFC as its strongest member. 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which a petitioner 
was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
Although he demonstrated that he competed in UFC fights and tournaments, the Petitioner has not 
shown how his role as a competitive fighter is reflective of a leading role for them. The record does 
1 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
2 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
not include evidence, for example, differentiating his role as a competitor from the roles of the other 
competitors or employees of UFC. Furthermore, he has not indicated where his position fits in the 
overall hierarchy of the UFC organization. Without evidence establishing that he performed in a 
leading role, the Petitioner's role as a competitor in and of itself is insufficient to show that it is leading 
consistent with the plain language of this regulatory criterion. 
Regarding the critical nature of his role at UFC, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how he impacted 
their standings in the field. For instance, he did not show that UFC garnered attention or increased 
attendance based on his event appearances. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden 
of demonstrating his eligibility under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has won some UPC fights, but the record does not demonstrate the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483327 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 08, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of microbiology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , he 
did not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his doctor of philosophy in human pathology and infectious diseases from [ l University in 2018. Since 2019 he has been employed by Universit l I as a postdoctoral research fellow in the Department of Bioengineering's I . 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of these ten criteria 
and the record supports this determination. The Petitioner's documented service as a peer reviewer 
for professional journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied 
field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications in his field and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Finally, the Director determined that Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence to establish the nature 
and significance of his scientific contributions in the field and has demonstrated that he satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record reflects that the Petitioner's culturomics approach 
atl I lab represents an original contribution of major significance in the area of gut 
microbiome research that has greatly aided other researchers in the field and resulted in promising 
therapeutic products. Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for 
this classification. 
As discussed above, the record establishes that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the 
microbiology field through his novel approach to culturing the human microbiome and discoveries 
related to bacteriotherapy development, and it shows that many other researchers have used his 
research as a foundation for their own important breakthroughs. The record further contains evidence 
of the Petitioner's continued contributions and demonstrates that his discoveries have earned him 
sustained acclaim in this field. 
For example, Professor! the Petitioner's doctoral advisor, explains that the Petitioner's 
work enhanced bacterial identification in hospital and clinical settings by providing the mass spectra 
of all isolated organisms to the I I database, a bacterial identification system, greatly 
improving the speed identification of bacterial organisms. I a researcher at the 
University of utilized a novel bacterial strain isolated and described by the Petitioner to 
identify a novel microbiome signature of type 2 diabetes mellitus specific to Pakistani adults. I I a microbiologist and senior research scientist at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, 
described how he applied the Petitioner's culturomics approach to isolate representative microbial 
cohorts, including new species, in the gastrointestinal tract of pigs and broiler chickens to explore their 
therapeutic otential. a professor of immunology biology at the 
Universit and Coordinator of the European I network and the 
French _____ networks, asserts that the Petitioner's new method of culturomics and mass 
spectrometry-based identification of bacteria "revolutionized the field and launched the deep 
characterization of the human micro biota, supporting the development of live biotherapeutics to treat 
diseases or boost immunological responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors." While we need not 
accept unsupported conclusory assertions, 1 the evidence of record, including evidence not discussed 
in this decision, supports these conclusions. 
Director ofl lab and the Petitioner's direct supervisor, states 
that the Petitioner was recruited to join based on his novel approaches to culturing known and 
previously uncultured bacterial species from the human microbiome. He explains that the Petitioner's 
work in human microbiome construction has helped to decipher what has been known to scientists as 
microbial "dark matter," organisms that microbiologists are unable to culture in the laboratory due to 
1 See 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States. 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
3 
lack of knowledge or ability to supply the required growth conditions, and he has discovered novel 
bacterial organisms never cultured before nor known to have existed as part of the human commensal 
microflora. His work has helped establish an innovative culturomics platform capable of creating a 
defined bacterial community from human fecal material to treat specific diseases. For example, 
lab is using those microbial communities to manufacture the therapeutic product 
material to treat malnutrition in lactating mothers and children and has 
received grant funding from the _______ Foundation for upcoming clinical trials. I J emphasizes that the Petitioner designed all culturomics experiments needed to isolate and 
purify the needed organisms for those products, executed and managed the platform, and was pivotal 
in attracting grant funding. The Petitioner is also collaborating with to help melanoma 
cancer patients who are non-responsive to cancer treatments by creating defined microbial complexes 
that optimize their gut health to enhance their response to commonly used immunotherapy. His 
resultant therapeutic productJ I has had a favorable response in the first round of experiments 
in mice. I I states that other prestigious institutes have requested products designed from 
the Petitioner's bacterial communities for their own research develo ment including I __ 
University. University of _____________________ University, and I University, further reflecting the national recognition the Petitioner has earned for his 
work in the field and its continuing influence in opening additional avenues for research. 
Regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored a significant 
number of articles in distinguished professional journals. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent 
to scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's 
articles is an important indicator of the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. In this case, the Petitioner offered a Google Scholar report 
reflecting a substantial number of citations to his published work, and that several of his articles have 
been particularly influential. Overall, the number of research articles he has coauthored and their high 
rate of citation are commensurate with being among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has obtained significant attention from other experts in his field 
that is reflected in the citations to his work, has continued to publish scholarly articles in distinguished 
professional journals, has received invitations to present his work at international conferences, and has 
completed independent requests to review a number of manuscripts for renowned professional 
publications. These are all positive indications of the sustained acclaim he has received for his 
contributions. In light of the evidence discussed above and other corroborating evidence of record, 
the Petitioner's achievements are commensurate with sustained national and international acclaim at 
the very top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, he has established 
that he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
4 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24527725 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 09, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in '"that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as a professional 
baseball player. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following four criteria: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• High salary or remuneration; and 
• Membership in associations. 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published 
material about the individual in professional or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
record reflects the Petitioner received nationally recognized awards. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner met the awards criterion. However, as discussed below, we find the record 
does not support the conclusion that the published material criterion has been met. 
In denying the petition, the Director found the Petitioner's evidence for two regulatory criteria was 
insufficient, membership in associations and high salary in relation to others in the field. On appeal, 
2 
the Petitioner argues that he meets both evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the evidence in the 
record, while we find that the Petitioner has established he meets the high salary criterion, he has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit.1 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the evidence 
to support that conclusion; upon de novo review, however, we find the record fails to establish 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Many of the articles submitted do not include the author or date of the material, thereby not meeting 
the plain language of the criterion. For instance, the Petitioner submitted two articles, one ublished 
in Diario Libre titled, dated and 
another article published in El Nacional titled, dated 
2021, both of which report the Petitioner is expected to play his first major league baseball game 
and provide background about the Petitioner's baseball career. Neither article identifies an author, 
therefore, such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring "the title, date, and 
author of the material". Id. Another article published by Listin Diario titled, 
does not include the date of the article, therefore, also not 
meeting the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles and social media posts, most of which briefly mention the 
Petitioner's participation in games or re ort his game la s and batting results. For instance, the 
Petitioner submits an article dated 2022 b titled, I 
which explain ns Dominican Republic's plays 
during its ame a ainst Venezuela for the 2022 ames, while briefly mentioning the 
Petitioner, ___________________ The Petitioner submitted other 
similar articles and screen shots of online social media websites. Many of these articles report on the 
plays made by the entire team, and do not single out the Petitioner. Although mentioning the 
Petitioner, the material is not about the Petitioner and is instead about the team. 
The reporting of the Petitioner being part of a team's roster is also not published material about the 
Petitioner. The Petitioner submitted material listing the players selected to play with the I 
___________ including the Petitioner as the catcher. These articles, while 
mentioning the Petitioner, report the team's player roster and are about the team. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screen shots of YouTube videos indicating these videos are 
interviews and information about the Petitioner. This regulatory criterion requires "published 
material" in professional or major trade publications or other major media and "the title, date, and 
author of the material." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner, however, did not include the 
regulatory required titles, dates, and authors of the material. Furthermore, the still images, 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that his appearances amounted to published 
material about him, relating to his work.2 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. We therefore withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations.3 
The burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, 
but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working 
in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that 
salary would be considered high in the United States.4 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to his salary as a professional baseball player with two 
teams in the United States. The Director 
found the evidence suggests the Petitioner's earnings are at the low end in comparison to the major 
league players. The Director also pointed out that the record does not include objective earnings data 
for professional baseball players in Dominican Republic, with an article indicating the difficulty in 
obtaining levels of compensation for the players. Without objective evidence, the Director found that 
the evidence did not demonstrate the Petitioner commanded a high salary in Dominican Republic. 
The Petitioner argues that the letter from sufficiently demonstrates the Petitioner 
commands a higher salary since it states the monthly salary for other professional baseball players in 
the Dominican Republic is lower than the Petitioner's salary. The Petitioner provided articles related 
to salaries of baseball players and average persons living in Dominican Republic, and a letter from I !relating to the Petitioner's current monthly earnings and the average salary of other 
players. The letter states the Petitioner earns a monthly salary of DR$350,000, while "[t]he average 
salary of a professional baseball player who plays the same position as I lin the professional 
league of baseball from the Dominican Republic ranges between DR (Dominican currency) $50,000 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (explaining evidence may 
include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular and academic journal articles, 
books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and 
the person's work). 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); see also Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); 
Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
(considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
4 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) Appendix. 
4 
and DR$200,000 monthly." The letter explains, I I is paid higher than most due to his 
excellent performance and skills on the field .... " An article published by elDinero titledl I 
by !describes the difficulty in obtaining salary information 
for professional baseball players in the Dominican Republic, "Officially knowing the salaries in 
Dominican baseball is not an easy task. The Dominican professional baseball teams handle the issue 
with discretion to avoid friction between players .... The minimum fluctuates between RD$60,000 to 
RD$70,000 per month for lower category players." The letter from stating the 
Petitioner's salary with the team and comparing it to others in the league, reviewed in conjunction 
with the article providing the minimum salary of baseball players in Dominican Republic and 
explaining the difficulty in obtaining salaries of baseball players in the Dominican Republic, are 
sufficient to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the Petitioner meets the criterion. 
We find that the evidence in the record is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we 
withdraw the Director's finding on this issue and conclude that the Petitioner's evidence establishes 
that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director found the record does not establish that the Petitioner plays for an organization that 
requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner clarifies that he submitted evidence based on his memberships with 
Dominican Professional Baseball League {LIDOM) and Major League Baseball (MLB) arguing these 
"organizations represent the highest level of professional baseball played in the Dominican Republic 
and in the United States, respectively." The Petitioner argues on appeal that while MLB and LIDOM 
do not have bylaws specifying the qualification of their reviewers, each requires outstanding 
achievements of its members which are judged by experts. It is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate 
every element of a given criterion, and we will not assume that every professional team requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their fields. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from LI DOM, media articles relating to operations staff for some 
LIDOM teams, and informational materials about LIDOM, including its teams, history, and television 
broadcast coverage. While the Petitioner argues he is a member of LIDOM, the letter from LIDOM 
states that the Petitioner is a player for one of LIDOM's member teams, The 
letter explains the eligibility requirements for a player to be selected to a LIDOM team. A player must 
first play rookie ball and then play 18 months with middle class A. After meeting these requirements, 
LIDOM does not select players to its teams, instead it is "the responsibility of each team's manager 
and its operations staff, which is made up of expe1is in the sport." The record does not demonstrate 
the selection requirements of players for ______ or LIDOM, or the outstanding 
achievements required for being selected to the team. Also, while the letter indicates the operations 
staff for each team who selects team players is made up of experts in the sport, and the articles 
5 
submitted provide information of some teams' operating staff, the evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's membership to I I or LIDOM, was judged by 
recognized national or international experts in his field. 
For the Petitioner's MLB membership, the record includes two letters from I lot thel I 
informational material about MLB's history, and articles explaining that a small percentage of 
baseball players play for professional teams. While the Petitioner argues he is a member of MLB, the 
record indicates the Petitioner is a player for the which is a member of MLB. As 
pointed out by the Director, the letter from states that only the top players with extraordinary 
abilities are part of MLB since players must be "exceptionally skillful, talented and disciplined." We 
ith the Director's findings that the record does not demonstrate that being a member of the 
requires outstanding achievements, but instead refers to the players' skills and discipline. 
ovides the names and experience of some members of the I I staff who 
select players to demonstrate they are experts in the field; however, the evidence does not demonstrate 
the outstanding achievements required to be a player for thel I 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
In summation, the record does not satisfy at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
6 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23373016 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a producer and television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director 's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently serves as a spokesperson and brand ambassador for thel I I a philanthropy based inl I Rhode Island. The record includes documentation 
to demonstrate the Petitioner's role as an advocate for the foundation's philanthropic work in Latin 
and South America and within Hispanic communities in the United States. The Petitioner intends to 
continue furthering the mission of the foundation through her work as a spokesperson and ambassador, 
as the producer and host of a children's television show, and as a producer of films and documentaries 
focused on human interest stories and humanitarian relief efforts. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by demonstrating 
the existence of published material about her work in major media and by providing evidence of her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field of expertise. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that she meets criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii), (ix), and (x). The Petitioner states that the 
Director did not provide a full analysis of the evidence submitted or consider certain evidence. As 
more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence of her work for the ___________ as a 
spokesperson, an ambassador, a television show host, and a producer. Evidence included a letter from 
the foundation's president and the former chairman and chief executive officer ofl I of 
which the foundation is a philanthropic endeavor. The foundation's president wrote that he supervises 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv). 
2 
the Petitioner and provided a detailed description of the Petitioner's roles and her impact on the 
organization: 
Since 2013,I I has represented the Foundation at various philanthropic 
events and leads our efforts to facilitate partnerships with local organizations across 
Latin America. The ltakes pride in the fact thatl I 
has traveled to underprivileged Spanish speaking communities all around the world and 
in the United States to deliver! I humanitarian and financial aid on behalf of 
I land the foundation. For example, in 2017, on behalf of I led a team to Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria to provide humanitarian 
relief efforts and also helped lead the evacuation of critically injured Puerto Ricans in 
need of medical care. In 2019, she traveled to Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, and 
Venezuela to fulfill our philanthropic efforts ... and delivered humanitarian and 
financial aid as well as toys on behalf of I and [the] 
Of the television show that the Petitioner produces and hosts, the foundation's president wrote, 
____ work on the show as the executive producer and host has been 
instrumental in the show's continued contract with major U.S. TV station, Mega TV .... 
[She] has been critical in the success of the show and it's [sic] continuous airing since 
2013 in major television channels like CNN Latino, Mira Tv, mega TV, and Latin and 
South American television station CB24. Through the show,I I creates 
content that aligns with the mission and vision and can educate, 
empower and inspire Spanish speaking children and their families. Without her leading 
and critical role in the show I I this endeavor would not be 
possible. 
The letter also includes details concerning the Petitioner's work on documentaries funded by the 
foundation through her company, I I and a letter from an executive at Mega TV 
discusses the success of the television show. A letter from a specialist for global philanthropy and 
social impact atl I provides an additional perspective on the Petitioner's involvement with the 
foundation: 
work in the children's television show and documentaries highlight and 
demonstrate awareness on many different topics to include health, nutrition, social and 
political climates in Latin America.... These documentaries demonstrate 
humanitarian, political and economic injustices of Spanish speaking countries.... I 
personally had the privilege of working with I I on I I 
where we travelled to Colombia to brin humanitarian help and awareness to the 
indigenous community that resides in . . . The television show and the 
documentaries created by .have been able to not only document the 
struggle of these Spanish speaking communities but also helped bring awareness and 
change these situations by providing humanitarian and monetary aid, toys and food for 
the less fortunate. 
3 
Although the Director found that the evidence of record shows that the foundation has a distinguished 
reputation, he determined that the president's letter "primarily contains unsupported assertions that the 
petitioner's role was critical without sufficient explanation and supporting documentation." The 
Director did not discuss the letters from the I representative or the Mega TV executive, and the 
Petitioner highlights this omission on appeal, stating that the decision refers to this documentation "as 
'letters of support' without evaluation or analyzing" the evidence. She asserts, for example, that the 
letter from the foundation describes "how the success of the foundation is attributable to the critical 
role that the petitioner performed and discusses specific projects the petitioner has worked on .... " A 
review of the record shows that the letters of endorsement do provide explanations of the Petitioner's 
critical role; these letters contain detailed and probative information2 regarding the Petitioner's role 
and were authored by individuals with direct knowledge of her work. The letters are supported by 
documentation that includes several articles and webpages, evidence of the television show's regional 
Emmy nominations and awards, as well as certificates of appreciation for the Petitioner's work from 
city and district leadership in !Florida, and I California. Upon review, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24826253 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a molecular pathologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral fellow at The University of ____________ He 
is a molecular pathologist specializing in the field of immunology. The Petitioner plans to continue 
his research at thel I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three 
criteria he claimed to have satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work and authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field of immunology.1 The record supports these determinations. The 
Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish that he met criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v). As more fully discussed below, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Because the Petitioner 
has shown that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will remand the matter to the Director to 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination to determine 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim, his 
status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To establish eligibility under the criterion, the Petitioner originally submitted, in part, documentation 
of his research and citations of that research. Included in the Director's decision was an assessment 
of the Petitioner's article citation rate of twenty-four; "he has not established that such rates of citation 
are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field to [sic] commensurate with substantial 
national or international acclaim." It appears that the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence for 
this criterion using the standards for the final merits determination. Under Kazarian, the issue of 
whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim is only 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). 
2 
assessed after it has been determined that the petitioner meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criterion.2 
The Petitioner also included as documentation to support his eligibility under this criterion copies of 
papers and publications that he authored and co-authored, as well as evidence of his presentations at 
conferences and attendance at meetings with students and professionals in the field. Also included as 
evidence were letters of endorsement from scientists who know the Petitioner's work, who have 
mentored him during his academic career, and with whom he has performed extensive research. The 
Director determined that, while the Petitioner has made original contributions to the field, the evidence 
does not establish that his work has made a major impact of significance within the field. The Director 
stated that the letters of endorsement discussing the Petitioner's research lack specificity regarding 
how his achievements have affected the field or how the asserted achievements were being reproduced 
within the field. The Director further stated that the Petitioner had not established how other 
researchers emulate his techniques or have widely applied his research results, nor had the Petitioner 
shown that the presentation of his work at seminars and symposiums resulted in contributions of major 
significance to the field. The Director concluded that the evidence does not show how the Petitioner's 
work has affected the field "beyond the incremental improvements in knowledge and understanding 
expected from valid original research." 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the evidence initially submitted is sufficient to establish his 
qualifications under this criterion. He cites letters of endorsement written by former supervisors and 
colleagues who are professors and chairholders atl and at the University of I I including a winner of the Nobel Prize, and the record includes 
biographies of their roles and work as evidence of their credibility. The letters provide detailed 
descriptions of the Petitioner's research on immunotherapy using specific cells to counteract Graft­
Versus-Host Disease (GVHD) in transplants used to treat cancer and various autoimmune diseases. 
Opinions of his work in these letters include the following: 
My laboratory has been working on T cell-mediated anti-leukemia GVL immunity for 
more than 25 years. . . . _________ has significantly contributed to 
establishing the cell therapy program using ex vivo-expanded iNKT cells.... [H]e 
successfully expanded human iNKT cells from cord blood and demonstrated that cord­
derived iNKT cells are highly regulatory ... [and] enriched ... suggesting that these may 
be a unique subset of iNKT cells with immune-regulatory properties. 
Defining the main role of this ... cord-derived human iNKT cells will be fundamental 
to developing an innovative cell-therapy to improve the outcome and prevent/treat the 
GVHD in patients with ... cancer[ s] like leukemia or lymphoma. 
[H]e discovered a new way to enhance the therapeutic activity of these cells.... This 
approach has significant promise clinically. The process ... has the potential to be 
adapted to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for cell therapy for the treatment of 
GVHD. This new cell therapy could help patients as soon as within the next few 
years .... 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
He has demonstrated that ... cord iNKT cells can prevent Graft Versus Host Disease .... 
[H]is scientific work is essential to the medical research field in this country and will 
greatly improve the treatment of different hematological malignancies. 
A letter submitted on appeal from a professor at the University of I I familiar with the 
Petitioner's work writes that his research on NKT cells "defin[es] this new, functionally distinct, 
population in humans, that can be expanded in vitro." Another letter from a professor at the I I I I College of Medicine states that the Petitioner "has shown for the first time that there is a 
human equivalent of NKTl0 iNKT cells with different gene expression and superior in vitro and in 
vivo immunosuppressive function [which can] prevent GVHD .... " An additional letter submitted on 
appeal from a former mentor and supervisor at the __________ expounds on her 
previous letter of endorsement: 
His contribution to the field of cell therapy using ex vivo expanded iNKT cells is 
exceptional as we are the one of few research groups in the world who can expand 
iNKT cells in sufficient quality and quantity for the use of clinical use. Moreover, we 
are the only group who has successfully demonstrated the feasibility of ex vivo 
expansion of iNKT cells from cord blood. Because of his scientific contribution .. .I 
was able to obtain [a] prestigious government grant, [the] Individual Investigator 
A ward from [the] Cancer Prevention & Research Institute of I I - totaling 
$900,000.00 over 3 years from 2020-2023.... He has significantly contributed to the 
field of cell therapy by establishing a novel methodology to expand extremely rare T 
cell subsets, and to the field of basic science ... by further identifying a unique 
regulatory subset of iNKT cells. 
These letters of endorsement also highlight the importance of the Petitioner's New Investigator Award 
from I for 2022, his receipt of a Careers in Immunology Fellowship 2021-2022 from and 
his presentation of his peer-reviewed articles and research at several conferences-some attended by 
scientists from throughout the world. These awards and engagements are supported by the 
documentation in the record and, alongside the letters of endorsement, serve to demonstrate the 
significance of the Petitioner's specific research findings in the field of immunology. Upon review, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24514114 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hospitality entrepreneur/bar professional, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as a hospitality 
entrepreneur/bar professional. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following criteria: 
• Judge of others' work; 
• Leading or critical role; 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership in associations; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions; and 
• Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, judge of 
others' work under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). We agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets these criteria. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to the remaining 
criteria of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), membership in associations under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), and display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Petitioner does not dispute on appeal the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
does not meet the criterion relating to authorship of scholarly articles. Therefore, we deem this issue 
to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 
l&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding arguments not raised on appeal are abandoned). After 
reviewing the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit.1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence claiming he met the criterion based on two awards, the first being 
a first class certificate for the competition of barman which took place at the disco club.I I in 
2000, and a certificate of participation in the master class held at thel I in 
I I in 2009. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in his field of bar professional. Id. When determining 
whether the awards were for excellence in the field, relevant considerations include the criteria used 
to grant the awards; the national or international significance of the awards; and the number of 
awardees, as well as any limitations on competitors.2 We agree with the Director that the evidence 
does not sufficiently support the plain language of the criterion that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, or that they are awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field of 
bar professional. 
For this first class certificate earned at the I I the record includes a letter froml I 
Chairman of the Committee of I I stating that the certificate was the 
highest award awarded by the International Barman Association (IBA), with an explanation of the 
IBA's reputation, the criteria for earning the certificate, and previous winners of the certificate. The 
Petitioner argues on appeal that the letter dated June 6, 2022, froml !demonstrates the 
first class certificate has national and international recognition because the letter states the competition 
had "national and international news coverage" which is included in attached newspaper articles. The 
Petitioner also argues that the letter describes the international recognition of the award by stating, the 
award "represents the range and magnitude of the global drink industry" taking into account the 
nominees' "experience and frequency in [sic] international arena.". The record includes one news 
article datedl 12000, entitled related to the 
event. The article explains that the event is the first bartenders' competition in Armenia and provides 
some event information. However, the article's publication distribution details have not been 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
provided, therefore the evidence does not demonstrate whether the news article was published to a 
national or international audience, or if it was limited to local news media. 
Also, evidence in the record contradicts some of the letter's statements. While the letter fromD 
I I indicates the certificate was awarded by the IBA, the news article indicates the competition 
was initiated by students who graduated from a bartending school.I I Also, neither the news 
article nor the certificate indicates the competition was provided by the I BA; instead, they both indicate 
the disco club I I held the competition with the top of the certificate labeled with the advertising 
brand logo and name for the disco clubl I Instead of IBA holding the competition and awarding 
the certificate, the news article and the certificate both include a limited IBA reference indicating the 
competition was held "in accordance with the rules of the International Barman Association". These 
inconsistencies do not clearly demonstrate the I BA held the competition, thereby questioning the 
national or international recognition of the award. See Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988) (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective 
evidence). 
Also, the article indicates the Petitioner was one of three persons who won the first round of the 
competition onl I 2000, being awarded a si Iver shaker. The record includes a photograph 
depicting the silver shaker with the certificate. The article was published a couple of days after the 
certificate was awarded and states the best bartender would later receive a gilded shaker at the end of 
the year. It is unclear whether the Petitioner's certificate was awarded for his excellence in the field 
since the article appears to indicate the certificate received by the Petitioner was also awarded to two 
other people, and a higher award for best bartender would be awarded at the end of that year. Such 
statements also appear to contradict the letter froml lwhich states the Petitioner earned 
the highest award. Without resolution of these inconsistencies, the record does not demonstrate the 
certificate recognizes the Petitioner's excellence in his field. See id. 
With the second claimed award, the certificate of participation in the master class held at thel I 
in 2009, the Petitioner submitted a letter dated June 6, 2022, from 
Member of the Committee of The letter states the 
Petitioner earned the highest award by ___ in 2009, and provides details about the I I I I the criteria for the award, and previous winners of the award. While 
the letter makes a statement that this is an award that received "international and national media 
coverage", no further evidence was submitted relating to the award's international and national 
recognition. While the letter mentions the media coverage of the award, the evidence is insufficient 
to demonstrate the national or international recognition of the award. 
This letter also includes inconsistencies from evidence in the record. The letter indicates the Petitioner 
received the highest award,,__ _________ however, the certificate indicates the 
Petitioner earned a certificate of participation at the master class at the competition entitled 
_____ This letter describes the award's criteria, which criteria is the same criteria, word 
for word, stated by I I for the first class certificate from 2000. The nearly identical 
language in the letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into 
question the persuasive value of the letters' content." See Hamal v. US. Dep 't ofHomeland Security, 
No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). Also.I I letter provides details for 
the competition, _______ Competition, however, the Petitioner's certificate relates to 
4 
the competition,,__ ________ The Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. See Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 
at 591-92. Therefore, the evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate the certificate of participation 
recognizes the Petitioner's excellence in his field. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet this criterion, first, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in 
his field. Second, the Petitioner must demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize 
nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to 
determine if the achievements are outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding 
determination as a condition of eligibility for prospective membership.3 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims he meets this criterion by being a guild member of the IBA. The 
Petitioner argues the TBA's bylaws demonstrate that guild membership requires outstanding 
achievement since guild membership is the highest IBA membership and is limited to one bartender 
per country. The Petitioner argues that experts in the field judge guild membership since applications 
must first be submitted to the IBA president and the guild's vice president, and the guild membership 
must then be approved by two thirds vote at a general or special membership meeting. The Petitioner 
further argues that experts in the field, the IBA president and the guild's vice president, review the 
guild membership application, and professional barmen vote to approve the guild membership. 
While the bylaws indicate a guild membership is limited in number, and requires an application and 
voting process, the bylaws do not demonstrate guild membership requires outstanding achievement or 
that the voting is judged by experts in their field. The bylaws do not indicate the IBA guild members' 
applications are selected and approved by having outstanding achievement in the field. Instead, the 
bylaws state that guild membership is "open to all independent National Bartenders Guilds whose 
members are cocktai I bartenders that meet the standards of the profession and furthermore satisfy to 
the requirements and conditions laid down in the Rules and Regulations of the I.B.A. Applications for 
Guild Membership .... " Meeting the standards of the profession and satisfying any requirements of 
the guild membership application, does not demonstrate the requirement that guild members have 
outstanding achievement. 
Also, submitting the application to a particular person, the IBA president and the guild's vice president, 
does not demonstrate they are recognized national or international experts in the barman field judging 
the Petitioner's outstanding achievements. A two third vote by members also does not demonstrate 
there is a judgement of outstanding achievements by recognized national or international experts in 
the barman field. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 
We agree with the Director that the record does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate the 
Petitioner meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; include the title, date, and author of the material 
and any necessary translation; and qualify as a professional publication, major trade publication, or 
major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Some of the articles submitted do not include the title, date, or author of the material, thereby not 
meetin the lain Ian ua e of the criterion. For instance, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled, 
dated I 2013, and another 
entitled,,__ ________________ dated 12019. Neither article 
identifies an author, therefore, such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring 
"the title, date, and author of the material". Id. The Petitioner also submitted an article from the 
magazine ________________ which does not include the title or date 
of the article, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. Id. Also, the record does not 
demonstrate the magazine publication is a professional or major trade publication or other major media 
as required by the plain language of the publication. Id. 
The Director found some published material was not related to the Petitioner and his work in the field. 
While some of the material mentions the Petitioner, the Director pointed out that the articles were 
primarily about the Petitioner's work, bartending, and not about the Petitioner. We agree with the 
Director. While articles mention the Petitioner or provide a quote from him, they are primarily about 
bartender com etitions and the bartending industry, not about the Petitioner. For instance, the article 
dated 2000, entitled! I discusses the disco club 
competition. While the article mentions in a sentence that the Petitioner was one of three 
winners of the first round of the competition, it mainly discusses the compet
1ition. Another article 
entitled,,__ _________________ dated 2019, includes quotes 
from the Petitioner, however, the article is not about the Petitioner, and instead discusses Armenia 
being a possible future host country for world bartending competitions. The articles do not include 
substantial or material discussion about the Petitioner relating to his work. 
The Petitioner also submitted material published by the IBA which relates to its meetings and updates 
within the barman industry. The Petitioner argues on appeal that this material is about the Petitioner 
and his field of barman because the material indicates the IBA meetings were held in Armenia and the 
Petitioner is the president of the Armenian Bartenders' Association. While the Petitioner is shown in 
one photograph, the material does not mention the Petitioner and mainly discusses the IBA meetings. 
Therefore, the material published by the IBA does not sufficiently demonstrate that the material is 
about the Petitioner. 
6 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that material he authored for the publication, I I as its 
chief editor, meets the criterion. However, as pointed out by the Director, the material is authored by 
the Petitioner, and is not about him. Therefore, it does not meet the plain language of the criterion 
requiring that the published material be "about the individual". Id. 
The Petitioner also submitted screen capture images from several YouTube videos. The Petitioner did 
not submit transcripts and any necessary English translations, and therefore the evidence submitted 
does not show that the videos are published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the 
field for which he seeks classification.4 Also, he did not submit evidence such as view counts to 
establish that the YouTube channels that carried the videos qualify as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media.5 
We find that the evidence in the record does not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in the field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence indicating gratitude for his support of various associations, his 
completion of field related education programs, and his attendance at field related conferences. While 
these documents show the Petitioner participated in events and provided support related to his field, 
they do not demonstrate the Petitioner had original contributions of major significance in the 
bartending field by attending these events and providing support in his field. 
He also submitted two reference letters from vice presidents of the Armenian Bartenders' Association, 
in which the authors praise the Petitioner's personal and professional qualities, his abilities as a leader 
of the Armenian Bartenders' Association, as well as his contributions to the bartending profession and 
hospitality industry. However, the authors do not identify any original contributions, nor do they 
provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly significant 
in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contribution are of major significance 
to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value to meeting the criterion.6 On the other hand, 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 Id. 
6 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
7 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion.7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). The Petitioner has submitted letters from individuals close to him, praising his leadership and 
contributions to the field, but he also has not shown that these opinions represent a wider consensus, 
amounting to recognition of his original contributions across his field. 
Here, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner positively influenced and impacted the profession of 
barman within Armenia and the Armenian hospitality industry; however, the evidence does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner provided original business-related contributions of major 
significance to the field of barman. The record does not include specific methods or techniques the 
Petitioner developed to support a finding that his contributions to his field are original and of major 
significance to the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner's work was displayed, and that display occurred 
within an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature.8 We agree with the Director that the 
evidence is insufficient to show the Petitioner's work has been displayed in an artistic exhibition or 
showcase. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating he attended field-related conferences, competitions, 
and educational trainings. However, the record does not indicate the Petitioner's work product as a 
barman was displayed, or that the events he attended are artistic exhibitions or showcases. While the 
evidence indicates the Petitioner attended events relating to the profession of barman, it does not 
indicate his work as a barman was on display at these events. Also, the record does not demonstrate 
these events were artistic exhibitions or showcases. The plain language of the criterion specifically 
requires "display of the [Petitioner's] work" at "artistic exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi i). 
The record does not demonstrate the Petitioner meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
7 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
8 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix (stating that officers should determine whether the work 
that was displayed is the person's work product, the work must be the person's; and when determining whether the venue 
where the person's work is displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases, use the common dictionary definitions of 
"exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
8 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 1), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23607602 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material 
if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is a competitive athlete in karate and intends to continue his career in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied only the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). However, for the reasons 
discussed below, we do not agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for two additional criteria: published material at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). After reviewing all the 
evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria.1 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. We disagree and 
withdraw the Director's conclusion on this criterion. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." However, a review of the record 
of proceeding reflects that although the Petitioner documented his receipt of prizes or awards, he did 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 Id. 
2 
not submit sufficient documentary evidence establishing that that they were nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Turkish Karate Federation listing 
competitions and camps attended by the Petitioner from 2012 to 2022, with the Petitioner's 
placements in each competition. The letter indicates the Petitioner placed in the following 
competitions: 
• fifth place at the Karate Championship in 2019, 
• first place in six Turkish karate cham ionshi s, 
• first place at the _____ Croatia on 2019, 
• first place at the Karate Championship in 2019, 
• second place at the Championship in I I Portugal on 
2017, _ 
• second place at Karate Championshi p in 2017, 
• first place at Croatia on 2016, 
• second place at European Championship and _________ 
Portugal on 2014, 
• first place atl lworld Karate Championships in ___ 
Spain on 2013, 
• first place at Championship in Servia on 
2013, 
• first place at ChChampionship in __ Turkey on 
I 12012, 
• second place at Championship inc==JBussia on 2012, and 
• third place atl I Greece on 2012. 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors.3 
The evidence shows that most of the Petitioner's awards were from age-limited junior competitions 
and university student competitions. Age-limited and university student awards are intended for a 
specific subset of individuals and exclude those already in the field. See Hristov v. Roark, 2011 WL 
4711885 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) (upholding AAO finding that an award which was limited to students was 
not granted for excellence in the field of endeavor); see also Strategati, LLC v Sessions, 2019 WL 
2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award eliminated men from 
consideration and thus did not "measure the petitioner's standing or selection from the whole field."). 
The Petitioner has not shown that he faced competition throughout the field of karate in these 
competitions, which were restricted by age, student, or non-professional status. Due to these 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting relevant 
considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international 
significance in the field). 
3 
competitions excluding a majority of the field, the Petitioner has not established that these awards are 
for excellence in the field, as required by the regulation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner also submitted letters indicating he placed fifth at the I I Karate 
Championship in I 12019, and first in six Turkish karate championships. The record does not 
sufficiently demonstrate the national or international recognition for excellence in karate for the 
awards. Besides listing the placements, the record does not provide details of the awards. Without 
supporting documentary evidence to provide information regarding the actual competitions 
themselves, such as the sponsoring organizations of the events, the official entry requirements from 
the sponsoring organizations, the level of those who participated, or the degree of attention the events 
attract within the field, we cannot conclude that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in karate.4 While letters of recommendation from coaches and other athletes in 
his field indicate the Petitioner has extraordinary ability based on these placements, they do not explain 
how these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to demonstrate the level of recognition and achievement associated 
with the awards. 
With the initial evidence, the Petitioner also submitted documents relating to competItIons he 
participated in after the petition's filing date. The documents may be considered to help establish the 
Petitioner's intention to continue working in the field of karate, however, they may not be considered 
to establish awards received by the Petitioner. The Petitioner must establish eligibility for the criterion 
as of the petition's filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). 
After considering the record, the Petitioner has not met the plain language requirements of this awards' 
criterion. While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of 
these awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won, or 
that they are recognized for excellence in the field of karate, as required. The Petitioner has not 
submitted documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. Therefore, we disagree 
with and withdraw the Director's determination of the Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien ·s work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted 
sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record includes several articles reporting karate competition results that do not include the title, 
date, or author of the material, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. For instance, 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
4 
the article published in TRTSPOR entitled, I I dated I 
2014; the article ublished inl I entitled, 
dated 2019; and the article published in Haberler.com entitled, ____ 
___________ dated I 2019, all do not identify an author. Therefore, 
such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring "the title, date, and author of the 
material". Id. Another article published by the Istanbul Provincial Directorate of Youth and Sports 
does not include any of the title, date, or author, therefore, also not meeting the plain language of the 
criterion. 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must establish that material was published, that it was about the 
Petitioner and his work as a karate athlete, and that the medium in which it was published is a 
professional, major trade or other major medium.5 As noted by the Director, published material "must 
primarily be about the [P]etitioner relating to his work in the field .... " See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F.Supp.2d 535 (2012) (articles about the Iranian Table Tennis Team which only briefly mentioned 
the person were not about him.); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nevada 
2008) (articles focusing on a character played by the person or the show he performed in were not 
about the person). 
Although the Petitioner submitted materials mentioning the Petitioner's name, the materials are 
primarily reporting the results of competitions and briefly mention the Petitioner being part of the male 
kata teams and his teams' lacements at competitions. 6 For instance, the Karate Federation of Turkey 
Official Journal dated 2013, and the article entitled, ___________ dated I I 2019, each briefly mention the Petitioner, 
within the context of reporting the results of the of the competitions and the Petitioner being part of 
the male kata teams. Although mentioning the Petitioner being part of a team and the team's 
competition results, the material is not about the Petitioner but is instead about the team and the 
competition results. Therefore, the articles do not meet the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of published material, including links to website 
articles and quotes from the articles. The Petitioner had an opportunity to provide evidence for this 
criterion in response to the Director's request for evidence. Where a petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the 
AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N 
Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore 
not consider this newly submitted evidence in our decision. While, the new evidence is not considered 
on appeal, we note that the links and news' quotes are not sufficient evidence of published material, 
in that the Petitioner did not submit a copy of the full publications with the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
5 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
6 The Petitioner submitted articles in a foreign language and uncertified English language translations of the articles. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) provides in pertinent part, "Any document containing foreign language submitted to 
USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and 
accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
5 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. Although the Petitioner claims 
eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.7 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience as a karate athlete, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645775 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oceanographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement or by meeting three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral associate at the University ofl I She earned a Ph.D. in 
Oceanography from the University ofl in 2019, and states that she intends to continue 
pursuing research in the area of chemical oceanography in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others, and we agree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "violated 
proper adjudication procedures." After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she 
has not the initial evidentiary requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner specifically notes on appeal that the Director used the incorrect gender pronoun when 
referring to her throughout the decision, and that she misidentified her field of endeavor as 
"cardiovascular and infectious diseases" at one point in the decision. Although these errors are 
regrettable and reflect a lack of care in the drafting of the decision, upon review we conclude that they 
were not material to the Director's decision. Notably, the Director twice correctly identified the 
Petitioner's field as oceanography, and specifically considered evidence which relates to that field. 
While the Petitioner's appeal does not address any further issues with the Director's decision, we will 
briefly consider the evidence she submitted under the third evidentiary criterion she claimed. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that a petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
2 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner focused on two original contributions to the field of oceanography which she asserts 
are of major significance. The first of these is a revision she made to the I I software which 
allows for calculations of hydrogen sulfide and ammonia related parameters in freshwater and 
saltwater. This work was published in the journal Marine Chemistry in 2017, and the record shows 
that at the time of the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) it had been 
independently cited by other researchers in 15 articles. 1 She also submitted three articles published 
by other research groups which specifically note that they used her revised version of I Ito 
perform calculations in their research. Noting these citations, the Petitioner's postgraduate supervisor 
at the University of lstates in his 2020 reference letter that one group of 
researchers found her software to be "successful and accurate in its analysis." 
While this evidence shows that the Petitioner's software update has been successfully implemented 
by other researchers, it does not sufficiently show that this implementation is widespread in the field 
of oceanography or has otherwise been of major significance to the field. For example, the Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence to show that 15 independent citations to her paper describing this work 
indicates that it has remarkably impacted other oceanography researchers. Also, in discussing this 
aspect of the Petitioner's work>L..- of the University of !indicates 
that thel I software is popular and has been publicly available before the Petitioner introduced 
her revisions, and that these additions are broadly applicable and relevant to other researchers. But 
she refers to two of the three citing articles mentioned by Ito support this statement, and 
therefore does not expand upon the evidence of the significance of this original contribution. 
The second original contribution which the Petitioner focused on concerns her use of artificial 
intelligence to supplement the gathering of data on ocean acidification on the east coast of the United 
States. This work was published in Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans in 2020, and the record 
indicates that at the time of the Petitioner's RFE response it had been independently cited in four 
articles by other researchers. Also in that RFE response, the Petitioner submitted a chart from 
Clarivate Analytics showing citation rates for scientific papers by field and year, asserting that all three 
of her papers published in 2020 were at or above the 0.1 percentile in the field of 
"Environment/Ecology." However, we first note that it is not clear when this chart was published, as 
the only date that appears is the copywrite date of 2020. As the Petitioner based her assertion on her 
citation figures from November 2021, it is not apparent that the chart accurately portrays the percentile 
ranking of citations to her papers at that time. In addition, the citation figures in this field as portrayed 
in the chart show little difference between the 0.01 percentile (21) and the 50 percentile (1), and it is 
therefore not apparent that placement in the higher percentiles is indicative of a contribution of major 
significance . 
also commented on this aspect of the Petitioner's work in his 2020 letter, noting that another 
research group used her findings to support their own conclusions. But a relatively small degree of 
implementation or impact in a field does not generally indicate that an original contribution is of major 
significance. And while I !writes that the benefits of the Petitioner's research reach beyond the 
1 We do not include the citations in five papers authored by the Petitioner or one of her co-authors. 
3 
field of oceanography to the U.S. economy, those considerations are not relevant when determining 
the significance of her scientific contributions to the field. 
Aside from these specific original contributions, the Petitioner also asserted that her body of work in 
the field of oceanography was itself of major significance. For example, in her RFE response, the 
Petitioner asserted that the growth in the total number of citations to her work was evidence of the 
significant impact of her work in the field, and compared her total number of citations to that of other 
early-career researchers. However, this criterion focuses on the significance of specific contributions 
to a field, as opposed to the final merits determination which requires evidence of recognition, acclaim 
and standing in the field. Whereas the former may be shown in part through citations relating to a 
specific contribution, the latter may be reflected in the entire body of a researcher's work, including 
their total number and rate of citation. Therefore, the evidence comparing the total citations of other 
researchers to the Petitioner's is not relevant to the analysis under this criterion. 
Another set of evidence submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion were articles which 
reported on research projects in which she was involved. These articles were published on the websites 
and social media of the organizations through which the research was conducted, such as the 
University of and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The 
Petitioner asserted that these types of articles report "only featured researches with significant 
contributions," but she did not submit evidence in support of this assertion. While the articles and 
related evidence verify the Petitioner's participation in this research, they do not aid in establishing 
that her work was of major significance to the field of oceanography. 
Finally, we note that others in addition tol !submitted reference letters in support of the petition. 
For example, Institute of Marine Science notes that her 
research group cited to the Petitioner's work on the levels of carbon dioxide in the I 
and like discussed the economic and environmental benefits of her work. And I I of the U.S. Geological Survey commented on the Petitioner's research involving a chemical 
method of determining past water temperatures from coral skeletons, concluding that these studies 
evidence "scientific rigor and global significance." But while these letters highlight the importance 
of the Petitioner's research, they do not help to establish that it has been of major significance to the 
field of oceanography. 
For all of the reasons given above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that her original 
scientific contributions are of major significance in her field, and therefore she does not meet this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20634358 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and artistic display). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, 
published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, original contributions of 
major significance, and artistic display of his work. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to published material and judging, 
but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, original contributions, and artistic display criteria. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the awards and artistic display criteria, and that he 
has satisfied the standard of proof in this matter. Except where a different standard is specified by 
law, a petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance of 
the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Under the preponderance 
of the evidence standard, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner's claim is "probably true." 
Id. at 376. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he has also satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating to artistic display of his work.4 The Petitioner has, therefore, 
overcome the basis for denial of the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Director's first-step analysis of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) included some problematic 
statements. For example, the Director stated: "[T]he mere fact that an artist has exhibited his work does not necessarily 
establish extraordinary ability. The artist must also demonstrate that the exhibition or showcase was at a venue of sufficient 
level to evidence acclaim .... " The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), however, does not require 
that a petitioner's evidence show "extraordinary ability" or "acclaim" as indicated in the Director's decision. Such an 
analysis of the evidence is relevant to the final merits determination and not the first-step evaluation of the display criterion. 
4 For instance, the record includes documentation indicating that his designs have been displayed at artistic exhibitions in 
China. 
2 
the record does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice 
to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director must 
undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23071891 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 20, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts professional, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
After the date this appeal was filed in January 2022, we received correspondence from the Petitioner 
stating that another Form 1-140, petitioning for immigrant status as an individual with extraordinary 
ability, was approved on his behalf on April 22, 2022. United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services records confirm that this Fo1m 1-140 was approved on behalf of the Petitioner following the 
date of this appeal. The Petitioner stated in his letter to us that it "request[ s] a transfer of the 
Underlying Basis from the initial 1-140 [the current petition] ... to the approved 1-140 Petition for the 
following1 pending Applications to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status."2 As such, given 
the Petitioner's request that the current petition longer form a basis of his adjustment, further pursuit 
of this matter is now moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner 's name and I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, receipt number was 
among those listed in the letter. 
2 We note that as an appellate office, we have no jurisdiction over the "transfer" of Forms I-140 to different Forms I-485, 
nor do we have jurisdiction over the adjustment of status. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25234474 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a nail design artist and manicurist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center concluded the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria for the classification, but denied the petition, detennining that she did not 
demonstrate her sustained national or international acclaim and that she was among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As discussed, the Director concluded the Petitioner established three of the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), specifically that: 1) there was published material about her in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media related to her work pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 2) she participated as a judge of the work of others in her field as specified in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and 3) she authored scholarly articles in her field as indicated by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has met at least three 
of the initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Director concluded that the record did not demonstrate the Petitioner's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she was among the small percentage at the very top of her field of 
endeavor. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met her burden of 
proof to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she is eligible for the benefit sought. 
The Petitioner is a native of Russia asserting that she is an award-winning nail artist and master of the 
manicure and pedicure arts. The Petitioner contends that she has contributed to the industry through 
the introduction of innovative methods and techniques in stamping, airbrushing, and nail treatment. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received international acclaim for her work including 
winning 14 awards at seven international nail and beauty competitions in Russia, Italy, New York, 
Poland, and the Netherlands. The supporting evidence indicates that these awards were given by a 
mix of international industry experts in her field. The evidence further reflects that the Petitioner is a 
member of the International East European Beauty Association (IEEBA) and a reference letter from 
2 
this organization's president acknowledges her contributions to the field as a judge, instructor, and 
coach in the nail art industry. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided several online articles highlighting her as a leading presence in the 
field in her country and documentation reflecting her wide involvement as a representative and judge 
in international nail and beauty competitions, including in New York, Japan, the United States, Qatar, 
Egypt, and Russia. The Petitioner's wide participation as a judge in international nail and beauty 
competitions, along with other representatives from around the world, indicates that she is a leading 
figure in the nail design and manicure industry in her country. 
The Petitioner also submitted numerous reference letters from prominent individuals within the nail 
design industry credibly discussing her contributions and acclaim within the field, advanced and novel 
nail design techniques, creation of innovative nail instruction courses and master classes, advanced 
knowledge of nail disease and treatment, and aesthetically pleasing and visually interesting nail 
designs. The provided support letters indicate that it is more likely than not that the Petitioner has 
wide influence in her country's nail industry and that industry leaders from around the world attest to 
her acclaim in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner submitted documentation reflecting that she 
contributed five scholarly articles to trade articles in the industry. The provided evidence further 
supports a conclusion that the Petitioner has worked in a leading role as a nail design lecturer for the a a specialized nail design center in Russia, and that she has delivered 
lectures, workshops, and seminars, and developed innovative educational materials for these 
programs. 
Based on this evidence of the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition, as well as other 
evidence not discussed above, she has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a nail design artist 
and manicurist and established that she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes 
that the Petitioner possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a concluding that she is one of 
a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has the required sustained 
acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and her 
achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise and that her work will substantially 
benefit the United States prospectively. Therefore, the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25965834 
Motion on Administrative Field Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a city branding expert, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement , or, in the alternative , evidence that satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Director also determined that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented 
material facts with respect to her authorship record. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which the Director dismissed as untimely filed. We then 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of the Director's motion decision, concluding that the Director 
appropriately dismissed the motion to reopen as untimely since the Petitioner had not established that 
the delay in filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 1 The matter is now before us on combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss both 
motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) , and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 In Re 21340921 (AAO Sep. 28, 2022) 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
II. ANALYSIS 
We first note that the issue of the Petitioner's eligibility for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability is not before us. The sole issue before us on the combined motions pertains to 
our conclusion that the Director's dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combined motions was 
appropriate. 
The Petitioner argues, as she did on appeal, that the untimely filing of her first motion was both 
reasonable and beyond her control due to confusion about guidance issued by U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) which extended the period for filing of Form I-290B during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, she references the initial USCIS announcement of March 27, 2020 
which extended the due dates for requests for evidence (RFEs) and notices of intent to deny (NO IDs) 
by 60 days, and a subsequent announcement on March 30, 2020 which expanded this flexibility to 
include Forms I-290B filed within 60 days of the underlying decision. She states that the differing 
language between these two announcements caused confusion which led to human error and the late 
filing of the initial combined motions. The Petitioner further asserts that because USCIS announced 
on December 30, 2021 that the period for filing Form I-290B was temporarily extended to 90 days 
after the date of the underlying decision, this constituted an admission that the original guidance was 
confusing, and thus shows that the delay in her filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 
As we noted in our previous decision in this matter, the announcements which the Petitioner refers to 
on appeal were no longer in effect on the date of the decision, March 2, 2021, having expired in May 
2020. In addition, the change to allow Form I-290B to be filed within 90 days of the underlying 
decision was not announced until more than nine months after the underlying decision, and the 
Petitioner provides no support for her assertion that this was done to address any confusion from the 
preceding announcements. She has therefore not established that her delay in filing the initial 
combined motions was reasonable and beyond her control. 
The Petitioner also repeats her assertion that to deny her an opportunity to rebut the finding of willful 
misrepresentation would be unfair, especially considering the consequences of this finding. However, 
as we stated in our previous decision, she has not shown that her ability to respond to the Director's 
decision by motion was in any way hampered by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the record indicates 
that she had gathered additional evidence for submission well before the filing deadline for motions 
and appeals of May 4, 2021. As the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy, we will dismiss the her motion to reconsider. 
2 
Turning to her motion to reopen, the documents submitted with this motion were also included with 
her appeal, and the Petitioner does not refer to new facts which were not previously considered. As 
she has therefore not met the requirements for a motion to reopen, we will dismiss this motion as well. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was in error based upon the record at the 
time of filing or was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. In addition, she has not 
submitted new facts. We will therefore dismiss her motion to reconsider and her motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25462962 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The self-Petitioner seeks classification as a noncitizen of"extraordinary ability" in the field of improving 
business supply chains with enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . The requested, first­
preference category provides immigrant visas to noncitizens who demonstrate extraordinary ability 
based on "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" showing 
recognition of achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten preliminary , evidentiary standards -one less than the three required for the 
requested classification. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence. He contends that, 
contrary to the Director's finding, he belonged to associations in his field requiring outstanding 
achievements of their members by the petition's filing. He also asserts his demonstration of his 
performance in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance 
of evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Exercising de novo 
appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 357, 357 n.2 (AAO 2015), we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of a third evidentiary standard. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then determine whether an overall record establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim, demonstrating a noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the very 
top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two­
part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen of India, earned two bachelor of science degrees in his home 
country: one in mathematics; the other in textile chemistry. He worked about six years for textile 
manufacturers and machinery companies, gaining knowledge of end-to-end supply chain processes. 
The Petitioner then obtained a post-graduate diploma in management and ERP software certificates in 
supply chain manufacturing, advanced planning, and optimization. For about the past 20 years, he has 
worked as a software consultant in India and the United States, helping to improve supply chains of 
multinational companies in a variety of industries, including: textile; automotive; food manufacturing; 
and aerospace and defense. He contends he has extraordinary ability in improving business supply 
chains with ERP software. 
The Petitioner did not claim or demonstrate his receipt of a major, international award. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). But the record supports the Director's findings that he met two of the ten alternate 
evidentiary standards. The record demonstrates his authorship of scholarly articles about ERP 
software and business supply chain processes. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also established his 
participation as a judge of others' work in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in finding that he did not meet at least a third 
evidentiary standard. He asserts his membership in associations in his field that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and his performance in leading or critical roles for organizations with 
distinguished reputations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (viii). 
A. Membership in Associations in the Field Requiring Outstanding Achievements 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in associations in the 
field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the Director's July 7, 2022 request for additional evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
submitted documentation of his purported affiliations with various organizations, including: the Royal 
Academy of Engineers in the United Kingdom; the publisher of "Who's Who in America;" and Nest, 
a U.S. nonprofit organization supporting growth of handmade goods around the world. The Director 
found that, because the Petitioner's documents bear dates after the petition's June 28, 2022 filing, the 
evidence does not establish his claimed memberships in these organizations at the time of the petition's 
2 
filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) (requiring a petitioner to demonstrate eligibility "at the time of filing 
the benefit request"). The Director therefore concluded that the documentation did not meet the 
evidentiary standard. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he joined the organizations before the 
petition's filing. 
1. The Royal Academy of Engineers 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated his "role as a mentor for [the] Engineering Leaders 
Scholarship program at the prestigious Royal Academy of Engineering[,] developing and supporting 
the next generation of leaders in Engineering." He submitted the first five pages of a purported ten­
page academy document outlining "the expectations of being a mentor" in the program and printouts 
of pages on the academy's website regarding the organization's "strategy" for 2020 to 2025. The 
academy's website states that the organization "harness[es] the power of engineering to build a 
sustainable society and an inclusive economy that works for everyone." Royal Acad. of Eng'g, 
https://raeng.org.uk/. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits copies of June 2022 emails between him and the manager of the 
Royal Academy of Engineering's mentoring program.1 The copies show that, on June 9, the Petitioner 
messaged the British academy, stating his interest in "mentoring opportunities" and asking whether 
he could participate from his location in the United States. The academy manager responded the same 
day, stating that, as long as the Petitioner and his "mentee" agree on suitable times for online video 
meetings, the Petitioner's location in the United States would not bar his participation in the program. 
The manager also asked the Petitioner about his background and how he learned of the mentoring 
opportunity. He responded the same day, attaching a copy of his curriculum vitae and stating that an 
academy official had emailed him about the opportunity. On June 13, the manager messaged the 
Petitioner that the academy "would love to onboard you as a Mentor for our Engineering Leaders 
Scholarship" and thanked him for his "generous offer to support our engineering students." The email 
also explained how he could create an online, "mentoring profile" to be matched with a mentee. The 
Petitioner contends that the email exchange demonstrates his June 13, 2022 approval as an academy 
mentor, before the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. 
The Petitioner has demonstrated his acceptance as a mentor with the Royal Academy of Engineering 
before the petition's filing. But the Petitioner's materials do not meet the evidentiary standard at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). A petitioner must demonstrate their membership in an association and that 
the membership required judgments by recognized national or international experts that the noncitizen 
attained outstanding achievements in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2), App'x.: 
Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. If an association has multiple levels of membership, a petitioner must show that, to obtain 
their membership level, recognized national or international experts judged the noncitizen's 
achievements in the field to be outstanding. Id. 
1 If a petitioner received sufficient, prior notice ofrequired proof and a reasonable opportunity to provide it, we generally 
disregard evidence on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 T&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017). The Director's RFE did not notify 
the Petitioner that his evidence had to establish his eligibility "at the time of filing the benefit request." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). We will therefore consider the Petitioner's evidence on appeal. 
3 
The Petitioner's evidence does not establish his membership in the Royal Academy of Engineering. 
Rather, the materials indicate only his acceptance as a mentor in an academy program. Our review of 
the academy's website did not find any information about "membership." Rather, the site refers to an 
academy "fellowship," which stems from annual elections of academy "fellows" in recognition of 
their "outstanding and continuing contributions to the profession." Id., at https://raeng.org.uk/about­
us/fellowship. The Petitioner, however, has neither claimed to be an academy "fellow" nor 
demonstrated his election as one. 
Further, even if the Petitioner's acceptance as a mentor qualified him as a member of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, he would not have established that his membership required judgments by 
recognized national or international experts of his attainment of outstanding achievements in his field. 
The Petitioner submitted mentoring program documentation describing a mentor as "an established or 
experienced person." But the documents do not detail any other qualifications. We therefore conclude 
that the Petitioner's evidence of his mentorship at the engineering academy does not meet the standard 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2. "Who's Who in America" 
The Petitioner's RFE response stated his inclusion in "Who's Who in America," an online directory 
containing short biographies of distinguished Americans in various fields. An August 5, 2022 letter 
from the publisher's editorial team congratulates the Petitioner on his inclusion in the directory. The 
letter states that the registry seeks "to profile those individuals who have made a difference by virtue 
of the positions of responsibility they hold and/or due to noteworthy accomplishments they have 
made." According to a certificate the Petitioner received from the publications board, inclusion in the 
directory "is limited to individuals who possess professional integrity, demonstrate outstanding 
achievement in their respective fields and have made innumerable contributions to society as a whole." 
A printout from the publisher's website states the company's receipt of nominations from "personal 
referrals, industry surveys, review of significant publications, and through our continual monitoring 
of newspapers, magazines, awards, grants, educational and corporate records." The printout states 
"we select individuals for inclusion based on professional and personal accomplishments, education, 
contributions to society, and involvement with important institutions or events." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of a June 22, 2022 email, congratulating him on his 
nomination for inclusion in "Who's Who in America" and urging him to "[aa ]ccept your nomination to 
verify your information and provide the details of your accomplishments." Blaming "long processing 
times and administrative delays," the Petitioner admits that he did not receive notice of his inclusion 
in the directory until after the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. But he asserts that the June 22 email 
from the publisher shows that his "nomination/selection" and "actual inclusion" in the directory 
predated the petition's filing. 
The June 22, 2022 email, however, does not support the Petitioner's assertion. The email indicates 
that the Petitioner's nomination did not guarantee his inclusion in the directory. The email states: 
"Your information will be reviewed to determine qualification. Upon confirmation, you will be listed 
among 1.5 million of the world's most successful professionals in our online registry." Thus, the June 
22 email does not constitute approval of the Petitioner's listing in the registry. Rather, the message 
indicates that approval would not occur until "confirmation" of his "qualification." The email 
4 
therefore does not establish the Petitioner's inclusion in "Who's Who in America" before the petition's 
filing. Thus, he has not demonstrated his satisfaction of the evidentiary standard "at the time of filing 
the benefit request." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, while the Petitioner's certificate states the directory's inclusion of people who, in part, 
"demonstrate outstanding achievement in their respective fields," the Petitioner has not established 
that "recognized national or international experts" in his field judged his achievements to be 
outstanding. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The printout from the publisher's website states "we 
select individuals for inclusion," indicating that the publisher's employees judge candidates' 
accomplishments. ( emphasis added). Reportedly, "an editorial team of 70, including 12 researchers, 
make the call on who's notable and who's not." William L. Hamilton, "Who Are You? Why Are 
You Here?" The New York Times (Nov. 13, 2005), https://www.nytimes.com/2005/l l/13/fashion/ 
sundaystyles/who-are-you-why-are-you-here.html. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
editorial team that selected him for inclusion in "Who's Who in America" included recognized 
national or international experts in his field. For this additional reason, the documentation of his 
inclusion in the directory does not meet the evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3. The Nonprofit Fellowship 
The Petitioner's RFE response also included copies of emails regarding his interest in becoming a 
fellow at the nonprofit organization. A printout of the nonprofit' s website describes the fellowships 
as "virtual consulting opportunities ... to work on a unique project in support of an artisan business." 
The emails show that, on June 18, 2022, the Petitioner messaged the nonprofit, identifying himself as 
a "textile engineering graduate" and asking about "the process for becoming a fellow." Three days 
later, an organization official responded to him, providing information about the fellowship program 
and, if he was still interested in the role, asking him to complete an "intake survey." That same day, 
the Petitioner replied to the official, stating his completion of the survey and asking for "an official 
certificate of professional fellow that I am part of this fellowship program at an advisory level based 
on my industry and technology expertise." The official did not respond to the Petitioner until 
September 13, 2022, indicating the nonprofit's acceptance of his fellowship. The message states: "We 
are thrilled to have you on board for this impactful program. More details will be shared shortly." 
The official also stated that, although the organization did not issue fellowship certificates, it would 
consider doing so in the future. 
On appeal, the Petitioner downplays the significance of his June 21, 2022 email to the nonprofit, 
describing it as "a follow-up email asking for a certificate." He contends that he completed the "actual 
formalities" of becoming a fellow on that date, before the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of demonstrating the nonprofit's acceptance of his fellowship 
before the petition's filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Even ifhe did, however, the Petitioner would 
not satisfy the evidentiary standard. He has not established that his fellowship required recognized 
national or international experts in his field to find his attainment of outstanding achievements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Thus, the Petitioner's proof of his fellowship at the nonprofit does not meet 
the evidentiary standard. 
5 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of the evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We will therefore affirm that portion of the Director's decision. 
B. Performance in Leading or Critical Roles for Organizations with Distinguished Reputations 
The Petitioner contends that he met another evidentiary standard. This provision requires "[ee ]vidence 
that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In assessing eligibility under this standard, USCIS first determines whether the evidence demonstrates 
a petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2), 
App'x: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence. A leading role means 
that a petitioner "is ( or was) a leader within the organization or establishment or a division or 
department thereof." Id. A critical role means that a noncitizen "has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment." Id. 
Next, USCIS determines whether an organization, establishment, department, or division for which a 
petitioner held a leading or critical role has a distinguished reputation. A distinguished reputation 
finding must stem from consideration of multiple factors, not just "the relative size or longevity of an 
organization or establishment." Id. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his performance in a leading or critical 
role. As proof of his purported qualifying roles, the Petitioner submitted seven letters from officials 
of his current and former employers, and one from an official of a former client. The Director found 
that the letters do not: 
illustrate how [the Petitioner's] role made him more valuable than other colleagues at 
his places of employment. The evidence indicates that the petitioner is successful at 
accomplishing his job duties, but the record does not contain evidence to show that he 
was responsible for any organization's success or standing to a degree consistent with 
the meaning of "leading or critical role." 
The Petitioner contends that "recognized and reputable leaders" wrote the letters for him. He states 
that his roles have been leading and critical because they required "cross-functional skills to manage 
programs/projects of significant importance to the distinguished organizations." 
The letters state that the Petitioner played "key" and "critical" roles in multiple supply chain software 
projects. As the Director found, however, the letters lack sufficient details to explain how his roles 
were leading or critical. For example, letters from two senior information technology executives at 
the Petitioner's current employer praise his role in integrating the business of an acquired company 
into the employer's supply chain operations. They state that he led an "important" integration of the 
employer's tomato business onto a modernized platform to better manage the acquired tomato 
operations. But the letters do not detail the Petitioner's activities, whom or how he led the integration 
6 
efforts, challenges he faced, or how he overcame them. 2 Also, although the letters describe the 
integration of the tomato businesses as "important," the documents do not explain why the project was 
important or why company officials chose the Petitioner to purportedly lead it. 
Some letters from the Petitioner's current and former employers are also unreliable. As the Director's 
RFE states, the bodies of the two letters from the executives at the Petitioner's current employer 
virtually match. The letters' common language suggests that the same person drafted both documents, 
casting doubt on the signatories' purported knowledge and descriptions of the Petitioner's work. See 
Matter of R-K-K-, 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015) (holding that numerous and obvious similarities 
between documents supported an adverse credibility determination). In the Petitioner's RFE response, 
one signatory asserted that he wrote his letter. The other admitted that "I did ask [the Petitioner] to 
write up a bullet sheet of the activities he performs for my organization, but I can assure you that what 
I have written ... is an honest and accurate representation of the work and effort [he] put forth." 
Further, much of an undated letter from an executive at a former employer of the Petitioner matches a 
portion of a 2009 letter from another official of the employer. The employer submitted the 2009 letter 
to a U.S. Consulate in India in support of the issuance of a nonimmigrant work visa to the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner's inclusion of a copy of the 2009 letter in his RFE response revealed the similarities 
between the 2009 letter and the previously submitted document from the executive. Also, the 
executive's document was not printed on company or even his personal letterhead, casting doubt on 
its authenticity. 
The Petitioner's support letters lack sufficient details to establish the purported leading and critical 
roles he performed for his current and former employers. Similarities between the letters also cast 
doubt on their accuracy and reliability. The Petitioner therefore has not demonstrated that he met the 
evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time award or satisfaction 
of at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We therefore need not make a final merits determination on 
his claimed possession of extraordinary ability. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
reviewed the entire record and concluded that it does not support the Petitioner's receipt of the level 
of acclaim and recognition required for the requested classification. The record also does not 
otherwise demonstrate his rank among the small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established his eligibility for classification as a noncitizen of extraordinary 
ability. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The record contains details about software projects on which the Petitioner purportedly worked. But he appears to have 
written this information. The information is unreliable because the Petitioner may be biased in describing his roles on the 
projects. Also, the record lacks sufficient evidence corroborating his statements. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l) ("statements made by ... witnesses should be corroborated by documentary evidence in the record"). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19 819190 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a recording engineer and producer , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatterofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of an individual's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-{x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner began working in Brazil as a producer, musician, and engineer in the early 1990s. He 
stated that his "extensive work portfolio includes production and recording credits of hit albums for some 
of the most important artists in a variety of genres." The Petitioner has been in the United States since 
2016 in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the perfonning arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had met only one criterion, pertaining to prizes or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria relating to membership in associations; 
published material; artistic display; and leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not address or 
dispute the Director's conclusions regarding commercial success and original contributions, and 
therefore we consider those claims to be abandoned. 2 
We conclude that submitted articles from O Globo and Audio Musica & Tecnologia appear to meet 
the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) regarding published material about the individual in 
1 0-1 non immigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Futihermore, in June 2021, while the present appeal was 
pending, the Petitioner filed a secondimmigrantpetitionon his own behalf, with receipt number I again 
seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director approved that petition in November 2022. 
Nevertheless, the records ofproceedingfortheapproved petitions are not before us, and therefore we cannot compare the 
records to determine whether the approved petitions involved different facts, or were approved in error. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (holding that a plaintiff's claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office). 
2 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. We will discuss the other claimed 
criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claimed that he "has either obtained or been nominated for at least two ... Latin Grammys." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements of this criterion, but the record 
does not support this conclusion. 
A petitioner must establish that the individual personally received the prize or award. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Translated certificates from the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (Latin Recording 
Academy) do not indicate that the Petitioner personally received or was nominated for a Latin Grammy. 
Rather, he received the certificates "in recognition of [his] participation as Mastering Engineer" on an 
album that won the Latin Grammy for Best Album, and on another album nominated for 
the same award. The Petitioner's involvement in award-winning or nominated projects might be a factor 
to consider in a final merits determination, but the submitted certificates are not prizes or awards in their 
own right, and they are not evidence that the Petitioner won a Latin Grammy as claimed. 
The Petitioner has not documented his receipt of any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe11s in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner is a voting member of the Latin Recording Academy and the Recording Academy, which 
awards the Grammys. The record shows that voting membership in both Academies requires a specified 
minimum number ofrecent commercial releases, either physical or digital. 
The Director concluded that the Academies require members to be active participants in the recording 
industry, but do not require outstanding achievements of their members. 
The Petitioner asserts, on appeal, that a productive recording career is inherently an outstanding 
achievement, but the Petitioner cites no evidence or source for this assertion. 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that recognized national or international experts are responsible for 
judging applications for membership in either Academy. The record shows that eligibility is a matter of 
releasing a certain number of recordings within a specified period of time, without regard to the 
commercial performance or artistic merit of those recordings. The record does not show that recognized 
national or international experts are responsible for counting each applicant's recordings to determine 
eligibility. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that his Academy memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in thefield at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfies this criterion, but in response to a request for 
evidence, the Petitioner stated that his "work has been displayed at the 16th Annual Latin Grammys, an 
artistic exhibition or showcase." 
As discussed above, the Petitionerwas credited as a mastering engineer on two albums that received Latin 
Grammy awards or nominations. The Petitioner has not established that an awards ceremony is an artistic 
exhibition or showcase that displays, rather than recognizes, the nominated works. Even then, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to show that his work as a maste1ing engineer was displayed at 
the award ceremony. In this regard, it bears repeating that the Petitioner has not shown that he personally 
won or was nominated for a Latin Grammy. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his work was displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished 
reputation, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an individual is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition of his work that 
indicates sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has had a successful career working 
4 
with a number of well-known artists on major record labels, but the record before us does not show 
that his work with these figures has earned him sustained national or international acclaim in his own 
right. The Petitioner has submitted letters from current or fonner executives of major recording 
companies, attesting to the Petitioner's involvement in successful projects, but the record provides 
little objective basis for comparing the Petitioner's achievements and recognition with those of other 
engineers and producers. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24528840 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 27, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an "athletic coach/director" seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized 
award, or in the alternative, that he had met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director 
further determined the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer 
player or coach and that he had risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated that he was an international soccer defender who played with the Columbia 
national soccer team for eleven years, and professional international soccer teams in Brazil and 
Columbia. The Petitioner further stated that he was selected as the Columbia ________ 
in 2007 by a Columbian newspaper El Tiempo and emphasized his expertise in being the Columbian 
national team's designated I from 2003 to 2008. The Petitioner also submitted a letter 
from the _____ Soccer League explaining that he had "acted as a coach for different 
tournaments since 2016," noting that he managed the under 17 national interclub and under 20B 
national interclub in 2018. In addition, the letter stated that the Petitioner had also been the head coach 
of the ________ in 2016-17 in the "under 17 category." The Petitioner indicated that 
he planned to continue the growth of soccer in the United States and its ability to compete against 
other nations in international soccer competition by opening a soccer training academy in Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria, agreeing that he had performed 
in a leading or critical role with the Columbian national soccer team. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion with respect to him 
receiving nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards or major media publishing material 
related to his work and. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). The Director also concluded that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer player or coach, or that 
he had risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
We agree with the Director that the record supports the Petitioner's satisfaction of the leading or 
critical role criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the two evidentiary criteria relating to major media 
publishing material about his work and him having received a nationally recognized award. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we do not agree with these assertions. Since these 
determinations are dispositive of the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's 
arguments with respect to whether he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer player or coach and had 
2 
risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 
(1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is 
unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Documentation of the noncitizen 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We must first determine if the Petitioner was the recipient of prizes or awards. The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on his receipt of the awards or 
prizes, as opposed to his employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. Next, we consider whether he 
received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. In doing so, we consider whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field, including the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international 
significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and number of awardees or prize recipients, as well 
as any limitations on competitors ( an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for 
example, may have little national or international significance). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director indicated that the Petitioner 
did not submit any explanation of the award he received from El Tiempo, nor supporting 
documentation about the newspaper that awarded it. Here, the Petitioner emphasizes that he was 
awarded the Columbian I laward in 2007 by El Tiempo, a Columbian newspaper. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the I I award he received from El Tiempo in 2007 represented a lesser nationally recognized 
prize or award in his field of endeavor. For example, the Petitioner did not discuss the criteria used to 
grant the award, nor did he provide any explanation of the award, only indicating that he received it. 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not explain or document why the award was considered a nationally 
recognized award in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner's mere receipt of a recognition from a 
newspaper as ______ is not alone sufficient to establish that it is a lesser nationally 
recognized prize or award without further explanation and evidence. For instance, as noted by the 
Director, the Petitioner submitted little evidence to establish the reputation of El Tiempo, its 
circulation, or why a soccer award it granted would be consider nationally recognized. 
As a result, the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the non citizen's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To establish this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that there was published material about him 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author 
3 
of the material. 1 If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether 
professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate that the submitted articles 
were published in professional or major trade publications or major media. The Director pointed to 
the notice of intent to deny and the request for circulation statistics related to the publications, 
including data to compare these publications with the circulation of others, noting that the Petitioner 
did not submit this requested evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to two articles it asserts were published in major Columbian 
publications. First, the Petitioner em hasizes an article from 2019 from the Columbian 
publication La Opinion titled ____________________ The article 
reflected the Petitioner being interviewed about his career with the Columbian national team and his 
experience playing with professional soccer clubs. In addition, the Petitioner points to another 2020 
article in El Espectador, including another interview where he discussed a goal he scored against I I that put the Columbian team in position to compete for a spot in the I _ 2010 
Sudafrica. The Petitioner further states on appeal that the "stature and influence" of El Espectador in 
Columbia is noted by the Ministry of Foreign Relationships and provides a link to this organization's 
website. 
Although we acknowledge that the articles discussed by the Petitioner on appeal discuss him 
specifically and some of his accomplishments with the Columbian national team and other soccer 
clubs in Columbia and Brazil, he has submitted insufficient evidence to establish that either article 
was published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. As discussed by the 
Director in the denial, the Petitioner did not submit circulation statistics or data to compare the 
circulation of the publications with others to establish that they represent major media.2 For instance, 
with respect to the La Opinion article, the Petitioner only indicated in the translated article that it had 
"about 147,000 results." However, it is not clear from the translation what this number represents, 
and the Petitioner otherwise submits no information as to the circulation of La Opinion, nor how its 
circulation compares to other publications. 
In the case of the El Espectador article discussing the Petitioner, there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the views this article received, its circulation online, or the overall circulation of the 
newspaper to demonstrate it was major media. We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted a 
translation giving background on El Spectador stating that it was a "newspaper of national 
circulation," "considered by Le Monde one of the 8 best newspapers in the world" in 1994, and that 
in 2015 its circulation "reached 1,843,604 readers." However, it is not clear from the translated 
background information on El Spectador where this information and circulation data originated from 
to verify its credibility. The asserted circulation information from 1994 and 2015 is not 
contemporaneous with the date of the submitted article as to be probative in demonstrating its 
circulation in 2000. Further, the Petitioner provided no comparison of this claimed circulation with 
other publications to establish that it qualified as major media. 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
2 We note that neither article was asserted as a major professional or trade publication, but as newspapers with national 
and local circulation in Columbia. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner also points to the website of the Colombian Registry of Foreign Relationships 
and states that this confirms the "stature and influence" of El Spectador. However, the website address 
provided by the Petitioner only reflects the home page for the cited Columbian government agency 
and provides no data or statistics on the circulation of El Spectador, nor how its circulation compares 
to that of other publications in Columbia. 3 Therefore, without sufficient supporting evidence, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that professional or major trade publications or other major media 
published articles discussing him. 
We further observe that the documentary evidence reflects published material about the Petitioner 
relating to his work as an athlete, but not in his field of endeavor as a coach. The plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]ublished material about the [noncitizen] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen's] work in 
the field for which classification is sought." The Petitioner intends to enter the United States as a 
soccer coach. Therefore, the published material as a competitor is not within the Petitioner's field of 
endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that 
competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner 
does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that the Petitioner has had any published material about 
him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 The Petitioner provided the website cancilleria.gov.co. Last visited March 27, 2023. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 24, 25-26; see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25295809 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sound engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We subsequently dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts to be proved and be supported by affidavits or other evidence . 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, 
and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of 
the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the benefit sought. The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a new statement; an article about his patent and a co . py of the pate nt; 
an employment contract evidencing his position as senior sound director for the 2019 I I and information about that event; the charter of the ______ and minutes 
regarding the Petitioner's acceptance as a member; and, a letter from the television channel 
confirming the employment of the Petitioner as a senior sound director with information about the 
channel. 
We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean those that are relevant to the issues raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes within the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
Although most of the documents the Petitioner submits on motion were not previously submitted, they 
do not introduce new facts since the same information presented in these documents was submitted with 
the initial petition, just in different documents. The evidence on motion further confirms evidence 
previously submitted and is not considered new facts. 
The only documentation submitted on motion that was not previously discussed is the Petitioner's 
membership in the I However, the Petitioner does not explain the relevance of this 
documentation in his motion brief The Petitioner never claimed eligibility under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their 
members. As it relates to a motion to reopen, the requirement for "new facts" pertains to new information 
associated with the eligibility claims a filing party presented in their most recent filing, in this case, on 
appeal. A motion to reopen should not act as a vehicle to introduce new eligibility claims for the first 
time. These two concepts (new facts versus new eligibility claims) are distinct and are not 
interchangeable. New eligibility assertions advanced for the first time to an administrative appellate body 
are not before it properly. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021) (refusing to consider 
an appellant's humanitarian claims presented for the first time on appeal). 
The Petitioner therefore has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. Specifically, he has 
not offered new facts associated with his previous eligibility claims that are also supported by 
evidence. The result of this shortcoming is that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should 
reopen the proceedings. 
Regarding the motion to reconsider, we stress again that to establish merit for reconsideration of our 
latest decision, the petitioner must both state the reasons why the petitioner believes the most recent 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy; and it must also specifically cite laws, 
regulations, precedent decisions, and/or binding policies it believes we misapplied in our prior 
decision. 
The current motion brief states that the prior decision lacks thorough analysis and demanded excessive 
proof of eligibility that goes beyond the standard of proof required by the regulations. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to support these claims. The Petitioner cannot meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions; the motion must 
demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
2 
(BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
Accordingly, even if the Petitioner had argued that we failed to give the evidence full consideration, 
we would still deny the motion to reconsider because the argument would lack the specificity required 
for a motion to reconsider. 
Accordingly, although we acknowledge the Petitioner submits a brief, we determine the Petitioner 
does not directly address the conclusions we reached in our immediate prior decision or provide 
reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. Likewise, the brief in support of the current motion 
also lacks any cogent argument as to how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the 
prior motion to reconsider. 
On motion, the Petitioner also contends we erred in our decision by waiving issues the Petitioner did 
not discuss on appeal. Our review of the record reveals although the Petitioner collectively asserted 
his claims before the Director, he failed to offer all of those same claims in his appeal. When he failed 
to assert any previous claims within his appeal, he abandoned or waived those claims. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not provide any evidence on appeal regarding the waived issues. See Matter of 
Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496,496 n.l (BIA 2018) (concluding that an issue is deemed waived when it is 
not challenged). This means we will not factor those abandoned claims into this or any future motion 
decision based on this particular petition. He is, however, eligible to reintroduce these claims in a 
future petition filing (i.e., a new Form I-140). 
In light of the above, we conclude that this motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider and must therefore be dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In this matter, the Petitioner has not overcome our prior decision or shown proper cause to reopen or 
reconsider this matter. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not 
met that burden. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22642954 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR.29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one criterion regarding 
display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four 
additional criteria, either directly or indirectly through comparable evidence. After reviewing all the 
evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria.1 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner contends that because "[f]ashion [d]esigners are not researchers or experts in the field 
that are affiliated with colleges, universities or research institutions[,] this criterion does not readily 
apply to the occupation." However, this criterion is not as limiting as the Petitioner asserts. Outside 
of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field2 and may 
appear "in professional or major trade publications or other major media." As the Petitioner has not 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 '"Learned' is defined as having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." See 6 USCJS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 
established that this criterion does not apply to her profession, we cannot consider comparable 
evidence. 
The record contains documentation of the Petitioner's video presentation at the 2020 ____ 
regarding "what to look for when buying children's wear." 
The presentation was given to a general audience, specifically Spanish speaking fashion lovers, not 
"learned" persons in the field. In addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the presentation 
qualifies as major media. 
For the reasons above, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she not only played a leading or critical 
role, but also that the organization or establishment for which she played that role is recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation. Organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. 
( citing to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriamwebster.com/ 
dictionary/ distinguished). 
The Petitioner points to published articles about her company and that ofl I Collection to establish 
their distinguished reputation. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently established how appearing 
in these newspapers demonstrates the distinguished reputation of either her company or I I 
Collection. While the accompanying articles are complimentary and the evidence establishes the 
newspapers' circulation statistics, it does not sufficiently demonstrate that either of the companies are 
marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. For example, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence to indicate that the newspapers only publish material about organizations with a distinguished 
reputation. Without more, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's commercial successes in the pe,forming arts, as shown by box 
office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner asserts that this criterion does not readily apply to her occupation and that we should 
consider sales of her designs as comparable evidence. We agree. However, the burden is on the Petitioner 
to establish that the documentation submitted is indeed comparable to the evidence that would meet this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner cites to USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidentia,y 
Criteria in Certain Form 1-140 Petitions, (Dec. 22, 2010) which states, in pertinent part, that "[t]he 
evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the alien 's commercial 
success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts" ( emphasis added). While 
the record establishes that she sells her designs in stores, it does not demonstrate that the volume of 
her sales reflects her success relative to other fashion designers. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion through comparable evidence. 
3 
While the Petitioner asserts that she meets one additional criterion relating to published material at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on this additional ground because 
she cannot meet the required number of three criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, n. 7 ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675081 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bassoonist in the music field, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following categories: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance 
• (vii), Display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work of others 
in the same or allied field but determined she had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met three evidentiary criteria: published material about 
the individual in professional or major media; display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases; and holding a leading role for a distinguished organization. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not pursue her initial claims that she meets the criteria relating to lesser awards, membership in 
associations, and, original contributions, nor does she contest the Director's conclusions regarding 
these issues. We therefore consider those issues abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the judging criteria, but she also satisfies one additional category of evidence by her display 
of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner has therefore satisfied two 
criteria and must satisfy one more to prevail. As discussed below, we conclude she has not. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted articles from different publications that specifically discussed the Petitioner 
and her work as a bassoonist in the music industry. Each article included the title, date, and author 
and the necessary translation. The Petitioner also provided information regarding each publication to 
include the relevance of the publication, the intended audience, and circulation. 
In the Director's decision, he reviewed the articles submitted and found the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient evidence to establish the cited sources qualified as professional or major trade publications 
or other major media. 
The Petitioner contends she satisfies this criterion since she was featured in articles published in Qilu 
Evening News; Morning Post; Xiaoxiang Morning Herald; Jinan Times; New Weekly; and Music 
Weekly. The Petitioner provided printouts from various websites containing information about these 
publications. However, the accuracy of the information found on these websites is not clear. 
The Petitioner provided circulation data for each publication. The two publications with the highest 
circulation are Qilu Evening News with an average circulation of 1.35 million copies, and Morning 
Post with an average daily circulation of 680,000. The Petitioner did not provide the circulation data 
of these publications to compare with the circulation statistics of other Chinese newspapers and 
consequently failed to establish that these publications constitute major media. The record does not 
contextualize the provided circulation statistics, indicate their significance, or otherwise elaborate on 
how that information could establish that the publications are the type of major media contemplated 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, while the Qilu Evening News and Morning Post appear to have the highest circulation of 
the listed publications, it is not clear whether they are merely regional media for certain areas of China. 
The documentation stated that Qilu Evening News is distributed across 17 cities in China, and 
according to the World Association ofN ewspapers, ranks number 3 7 in circulations among worldwide 
newspapers. In addition, the documentation indicated Morning Post is "one of China's top 
metropolitan newspapers and one of the Top 100 dailies in the world." But the petitioner still did not 
provide sufficient information to establish that these publications have national rather than regional 
reaches within China. Publications with only a regional reach are not considered major media, and 
the Petitioner has not established that either publication is a professional or major trade publication, 
as also permitted by the regulation. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not meet the criterion relating to the display of her work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The regulation requires that the work 
displayed be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the work was 
displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). In support of this criterion, 
the Petitioner provided evidence of having played in several concerts and musical events, and she 
provided details regarding the venues at which she performed as a bassoonist. We conclude that these 
musical performances should be considered "artistic exhibitions or showcases" intended to showcase 
the Petitioner's musical talent as a bassoonist, and that she therefore satisfies the plain language of this 
criterion. Accordingly, we hereby withdraw the Director's determination that the criterion was not 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help establish whether a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, this criterion requires that the organization or 
establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision 
and instead provides documentation previous! submitted. The Petitioner contends she erformed in 
a leadin role as a rinci al bassoonist in the 
According to the submitted job duties, it 
appears the Petitioner led and oversaw the bassoon section for the symphonies. Although the 
Petitioner held a leading role for the bassoon section, she did not provide sufficient documentation to 
establish she played a leading role in an organization. For example, the documentation does not 
establish that she performed a leading role for the symphonies as a whole, such as by showing she 
influenced its overall reputation or status, or that she was responsible for the organization's success. 
The Petitioner did not sufficiently explain or demonstrate that her role as a principal bassoonist for 
one of the symphony's many sections constitutes a leading role for the overall organization. 
Even if the Petitioner had contended her role was a leading role in a division of the organization, which 
she did not do, we would observe that she had not provided sufficient documentation to establish that 
4 
the specific division she had led itself maintained a distinguished reputation rather than contributing 
to the distinguished reputation of the symphony as a whole. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the petitioner performed in a 
leading role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner 
provided job duties and explained that she led the bassoon section as a principal bassoonist but did not 
provide sufficient evidence that she led an organization. Merely repeating the language of the statute 
or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 2 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24228176 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification on behalf of the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a Spanish language instructor who uses various forms of art to teach foreign 
languages. The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary's superior teaching abilities positioned her in 
leading and critical roles teaching Spanish at top universities in the United States, including I I 
University,! !University, University, andl !University. While we do not discuss 
each piece of evidence, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner initially claimed the Beneficiary met six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Performing a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. 
The Director found the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to judging the work of others and 
performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations, but that the Beneficiary had 
not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes of awards, published material, original contributions, 
or authorship of scholarly articles. The Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary meets each of the other 
criteria in which the Director found in the negative. Upon review, we agree with the Director that the 
Beneficiary has satisfied the judging of others and the performing in a leading or critical role criteria. 
2 
For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary has not satisfied the 
other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the Beneficiary received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 
Relevant considerations regarding whether excellence in the field was the basis for granting the prizes 
or awards include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national 
or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to prizes or awards as the 
recipient of the Exceptional Teaching Impact and Motivation Student Voice Award (EXTIMO), 
awarded to her by the I I chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and 
Portuguese (AATSP). The Director noted that the letter written by the President of the AATSP, I !Chapter, stated this award recognizes the top-most inspiring Spanish/Portuguese teachers in 
middle schools, high schools, and universities in each AA TSP chapter. The Director concluded the 
EXTIMO award from thel I chapter was a regional award rather than a national or international 
recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that although the EXTIMO is awarded by each chapter, the association 
has 10,000 members across the United States and is therefore a nationally recognized award. 
However, the organization's national membership is not sufficient evidence to overcome the letter's 
statement that the Beneficiary received the award for recognition of her work in thel !chapter. 
The Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence on appeal to overcome the Director's concerns and 
indicate the EXTIMO award granted at a local chapter level is recognized nationally. 
In addition, absent information regarding, for example, the number of competitors in the Petitioner's 
age category, or evidence of the level of recognition associated with this award, we cannot find that 
the Beneficiary has satisfied each element of the criterion. The record lacks sufficient evidence 
verifying that prizes and awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Beneficiary herself received any recognition 
from outside the issuing organization. 
For the reasons stated above, the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Under this criterion, an individual must show that published material was about them and related to 
their work in the field and did not just focus on their employer or another organization. In addition, 
an individual must show that the publication in which this material appeared was one of the qualifying 
types through evidence comparing its circulation or viewership to other publications and/or evidence 
regarding its intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contends the Beneficia satisfies this criterion since she published two articles: 
and I 
___ Upon review of these articles we conclude the for this criterion because 
they are not about the Beneficiary. The I I article discusses an assignment from one of the Beneficiary's classes and the outcome of that 
project; however, it is mainly about the project and general information about the course offered by 
the Beneficiary. Nor does I I satisfy this criterion. The 
Beneficiary is a contributor, but the article is about the Mexican filmmaker I I and a 
conversation with him about his film. Since this article does not discuss the Beneficiary at all, it does 
not qualify under this criterion. 
Further, even if the article is is 
considered about the Beneficiary because it discusses one of her course offerings, it would not be 
sufficient to establish it was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. The article was published in thel !website. In response to the Director's request for 
evidence, the Petitioner submitted the website visitation and ranking data for from 
SimilarWeb.com. On appeal, the Petitioner states that !University's website had approximately 
7.8 million visits last month. The website statistics from SimilarWeb.com indicate that ranks 
7,609 globally and 1,810 in the United States; it also shows the average amount of visits to the website 
and time viewers spend on the website. However, the record does not contextualize those statistics, 
indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information could establish that the website is the 
type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, on appeal, the Petitioner 
states for the first time that website is a professional publication but does not provide any 
supporting evidence to corroborate this claim. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Beneficiary's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
4 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation causing it to duplicate 
another provision or have no consequence). Further, the Beneficiary's contributions must have already 
been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance 
connotes that the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Beneficiary made major contributions and has disseminated her 
techniques throughout the field via lectures at major conferences, publications in globally ranked 
websites, and acknowledgements of her work in teaching and student assessments. 
Several of the submitted reference letters indicate the Beneficiary successfully utilizes resources such as 
film, art, sculpture, and murals to teach foreign languages. Several of the authors indicate her teaching 
techniques received national and international acclaim as evidenced through her invitations to speak at 
conferences to present her teaching approach. But outside of sharing her teaching approach at conferences 
and seminars, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact her contributions had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how an 
individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work 
add value. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not probative evidence that 
could form a basis for meeting this criterion. Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in 
part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field). Moreover, United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record contains evidence the Beneficiary spoke at several peer-reviewed conferences and served 
as a panelist at conventions and seminars. However, the Petitioner did not show how the Beneficiary's 
speaking and panelist engagements resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. The 
Beneficiary did not demonstrate, for example, that her participation or contribution to the events 
influenced the field in a significant, major manner. Publications and presentations are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian 
v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
For the reasons stated above, the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Beneficiary is an author of scholarly articles in her field 
in which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first is within the academic arena, in which a 
scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written 
5 
by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research 
institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, 
charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. The second area 
lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in 
that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." 
Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. Id. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends the Beneficiary qualifies for this criterion since she was published three times 
by the Northeast Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Language (NECTFL). However, while the 
evidence submitted shows the Beneficiary was a presenter for the conference in 2020, the Petitioner 
did not provide any evidence to support the claim the Beneficiary was in fact published by NECTFL. 
The Petitioner did not provide evidence that all presenters are automatically published. In addition, 
even if the Petitioner was published by NECTFL, the Petitioner did not submit the articles to determine 
if they qualify as scholarly articles. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions 
that are not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. Matter of Ho, 
22 I&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Pano v. O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 
1756, Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence the Beneficiary met either a one-time 
achievement or document she meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a 
determination on the issue of whether the Beneficiary's entry will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25052697 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 31, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial eligibility requirements for this classification, either through 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The implementing regulation further states that the term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). It also sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, 
a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner, a native of Australia, has been working as a model since 2012 
and is currently represented by agencies in Australia, New Zealand, and New York. Her modeling 
experience includes runway, print and commercial work, most notably Fashion Week appearances in 
New York, London, Milan and Paris, magazine covers and editorial shoots, and commercial and 
promotional work. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that she can meet all ten of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. The Director determined that she met only the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating 
to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, and for the reasons discussed below, we conclude the 
Petitioner has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she received the "STM I I Award" 1 at the 
Western Australian (WA) Fashion Awards in 2016, an event held as part oftheLJFashion Festival. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of this award but determined that she did not 
provide sufficient evidence to establish that the award is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award for excellence. In reaching this conclusion, the Director observed that the media 
coverage of the award ceremony appeared to be only local or regional in nature. 
1 The record reflects that "STM" refers to Sunday Times Magazine, a publication of The Sunday Times, a newspaper 
published in the state of Western Australia. 
2 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 
Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for evaluating evidence in 
support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Prior to denying the petition, the Director 
issued a request for evidence (RFE), advised the Petitioner that these factors would be considered, and 
allowed her an opportunity to submit evidence such as the criteria used to grant the awards, national 
or international media coverage of the awards, information regarding the pool of nominees or 
competitors for the award, and any other relevant information. 
Although the Petitioner characterizes her STM Award as a "national award" we 
agree with the Director that the record contains insufficient evidence to establish that it satisfies this 
criterion. The record reflects that the media coverage of the WA Fashion A wards including the 
Petitioner's receipt of the STMI ward, appeared in Western Australian publications 
The West Australian, The Sunday Times and STM Magazine, as well as a few fashion biogs for which 
readership information was not provided. The Petitioner has not contested the Director's 
determination that media coverage of the award was local or regional in nature. 
We have also considered other relevant information pertaining to the Petitioner's award. The WA 
Fashion Awards event is described in the record as Western Australia's "only fashion industry awards 
night, run for the local industry by the local industry." While we do not question the prestige 
associated with the award, this description of the awards program as a "local industry" event does not 
offer support for the Petitioner's claim that the award is a nationally recognized award for excellence 
in Australia. 
As noted, both limitations on competitors and the criteria used to grant a prize or award are relevant 
considerations when evaluating the national significance of an award and whether a given award is a 
nationally recognized prize or award for excellence. Here, the evidence reflects that the pool of 
potential nominees for the STM ______ Award was limited to models who were signed 
with three modeling agencies based in Western Australia; this restriction further undermines the 
claimed national recognition and significance of the award in the field. The evidence indicates that 
these three agencies chose their own nominees based on unspecified criteria and that eight models 
nominated as finalists were then subjected to an online public vote by readers of the sponsoring 
publication, with the _____ being designated as a I I award. A submitted 
screenshot from the voting page indicates that the winner was selected byl I 
After considering evidence regarding the nature of the WA Fashion A wards event, the scope of the 
media coverage, the limitations on candidates or nominees for the award, and the method of selecting 
winners, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's evidence does not establish that her STM I I Award qualifies as a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
3 
for excellence in her field.2 Accordingly, we conclude that she did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, and 
that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements based 
on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment of dues or fees do 
not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. See generally, 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that she could satisfy this criterion, but did not provide evidence 
of her membership in an association. In the RFE, the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to 
submit evidence of her membership in an association in her field and advised that such evidence should 
be accompanied by evidence of the criteria for membership (such as the association's constitution or 
bylaws) and evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' applications are 
recognized as national or international experts in the field. 
In response, the Petitioner indicated that she was submitting "material from Models.com" to satisfy this 
criterion and provided a screenshot of her main profile page on this website. In an accompanying letter, 
the Petitioner described Models.com as "a defining fashion industry news resource that highlights the 
models and the creative stars of the industry," and as a "daily must-read for fashion insiders, 
photographers, casting directors, agents, art directors, editors, models and model fanatics to stay up to 
date." 
The Director acknowledged this evidence but determined that the record did not establish that her 
membership or presence on Models.com satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Specifically, the Director emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that membership is 
based on outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides letters from four individuals who maintain Models.com profiles, 
including a model, a makeup artist, and two casting directors. These individuals explain how the 
Models.com community significantly benefits their careers in the fashion and entertainment industry. 
In response to the Director's determination that the previously submitted evidence did not address 
membership criteria or requirements for Models.com, the Petitioner states that the website "is joining 
pretty much everyone who is anyone," noting that the Models.com community includes over 25,000 
2 The Petitioner's response to the RFE also included evidence that she received a ______ award and an I I award in 2013, both awarded by Alpha Models. The Petitioner's appeal contains no reference 
to these awards. Further, the record contains no further information or evidence relating to the awards and therefore does 
not establish that they satisfy all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
4 
professionals, as well as 600 modeling and artist agencies and over 3000 members from verified brands 
or magazines searching for creative talent. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner's membership in the Models.com community satisfies 
the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
that she is a member in an association in her field that requires outstanding achievements as a condition 
for membership and that the persons who judge the achievements of prospective members are 
recognized national or international experts in the field. While the evidence submitted on appeal 
establishes that Models.com is a valued community in the Petitioner's field that offers benefits to both 
models and those looking to cast models in their creative and commercial endeavors, it does not 
establish that membership in the community requires outstanding achievements or that eligibility for 
membership is judged by recognized national experts in the field. The record lacks evidence of the 
specific requirements for joining the Models.com community and therefore does not establish that it 
can be considered a qualifying association in the Petitioner's field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
that satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed that she could satisfy this criterion but did not submit 
evidence in support of her claim. In response to the RFE, she provided: 
• Undated correspondence, addressed to the Petitioner and attributed to the proprietor of 
I I Studio, inviting the Petitioner to participate as a judge and model for the 
20161 I Search to be held in August 2016; 
• An unsigned letter dated May 26, 2020, also attributed to the proprietor ofl I 
Studio. The letter states the Petitioner had been booked for several catwalk shows 
during the annual I I Search events and that she "has been a judge at our 
model search in 2016." 
• An article titled Search Launch" published by The West Australian 
newspaper inc=]2016, which covered the launch of the 2016 Search 
competition. The article mentions the Petitioner as one of the "local beauties" who 
participated in a previous edition of the competition. 
• Captioned photographs of the Petitioner taken at the 2015 I lsearch event 
which identify her as a "special guest" and "former winner." 
The record on appeal contains some additional evidence regarding the Petitioner's relationship with I I Studio. The evidence indicates that she was one of the winners the model search in 
2013, that she had a with this business, and that she performed work for 
them in the past. However, the record does not include additional evidence confirming her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field at the 2016 I I Search event or 
in any other capacity. As noted, the only evidence indicating her actual participation as a judge is a 
brief statement in a letter that does not bear the signature of the person to whom its attributed. If 
5 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, there is no 
additional evidence corroborating the Petitioner's participation as a judge. 
In addition, we note that the Petitioner's description of the I I Search competition 
indicates that competitors "must have had no prior modeling experience." Therefore, even if the 
Petitioner had sufficiently documented that she participated as a judge at this event, the record does 
not establish that she was required to judge the work of others "in the same field" or "in an allied field 
of specialization." Rather, the record reflects that the persons who participate in the competition are 
not models. The record also lacks evidence as to what the model search competition entailed and what 
criteria were considered by judges in selecting winners. Without this information, we cannot 
determine whether judging this event required judging "work" in the field. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must not only identify and 
demonstrate their original contributions, but also establish their major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner stated in her initial cover letter that she could meet this criterion but did not identify her 
original contributions in her field or indicate any specific evidence she was submitting to demonstrate 
her eligibility. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion, and therefore, the 
Director concluded that she did not establish that she meets it. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she is submitting evidence of her "scholarly, artistic and athletic" 
achievements which have contributed to her success as a model. The newly submitted evidence 
documents her athletic achievements in martial arts and netball, her completion of a primary school 
course in first aid awareness, and various achievements she recorded during secondary school 
including certificates of French Language competence, certificates recognizing her participation in the 
arts, a certificate of completion for a peer support leadership course, and a Western Australian 
Certificate of Education which appears to be comparable to a high school diploma. 
Here, the Director reviewed the initial evidence, notified the Petitioner of deficiencies in an RFE, and 
advised her of what type of evidence she could submit in support of this criterion. As noted, the 
Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding to the RFE and now requests that we review 
additional evidence submitted on appeal. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in 
the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
6 
The Petitioner also maintains that she previously provided "letters from companies showing her major 
significance in the field with her contributions," but does not elaborate or reference any specific 
evidence that she intended to be considered under this criterion. We have considered the reference 
letters in the record but conclude that they do not demonstrate how the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in her field. Specifically, the record contains reference letters from 
modeling agencies, brand managers, photographers and designers. Letters that specifically articulate 
how the person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent 
work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F .2 Appendix. 
The individuals who provided letters praise the Petitioner's professionalism, adaptability, work ethic, 
positive attitude, and her "high-end, international look," noting that these and other attributes have 
made her a sought-after model who "contributes to the sales of the companies she works with." 
However, general assertions that she contributed to sales of fashion or beauty products for individual 
companies do not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an "original contribution" that has a 
broader impact or influence in her field of endeavor. While several authors note the Petitioner's 
creativity and stated that she "continues to lead the modeling industry in new directions," these letters, 
fall short of identifying any specific original contribution the Petitioner has made to the modeling 
industry or how she has made a contribution that impacted subsequent work by others in her field, 
such that it could be concluded that her contributions were of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. First, the Petitioner must establish that she has authored scholarly articles in 
the field in which she intends to engage if she is granted status as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. The 
second area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. Regarding 
the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the publication's 
circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish the publication's 
intended audience. Id. 
Although the Petitioner indicated at the time of filing that she can meet this criterion, she did not 
provide documentation of her authorship of scholarly articles. Her response to the RFE included 
7 
evidence that she served as a guest blogger for Style Voyeur magazine's website, participated in a 
for Oyster magazine, created a backstage diary for RUSSH magazine's website, 
and prepared a list of her top 10 career highlights in connection with her STM _____ 
award. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that her published work 
consisted of scholarly articles intended for learned persons in her field or that it appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, asserts that she submitted evidence regarding the social media following of the referenced 
magazines and provided sufficient evidence that her work appeared in qualifying media. However, 
the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that she did not provide evidence of the 
scholarly nature of her published work. We agree with the Director that the evidence does not meet 
all elements of this criterion. For example, the Petitioner provided copies of e-mails she received from 
Style Voyeur and Oyster magazines inviting her to participate in a guest blogger appearance and in a I I respectively. Style Voyeur asked her to include behind-the-scenes content from 
photo shoots and fashion shows, "cool pies of the city/cities you visit," candid pictures of the Petitioner 
with "other girls," and photographs of "casting outfits/selfies/your apartment/whatever." Oyster 
magazine similarly asked her to film an introductory video and suggested that she provide content that 
included videos of her getting ready for the day, traveling to a venue where she was working, "hanging 
backstage," and getting her makeup done. The Petitioner has not established that the content she 
created constitutes "scholarly articles" or that its intended audience was "learned persons" in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. In 
addition, it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate the organization or establishment, or the 
department or division for which she holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished 
reputation. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F .2 Appendix. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she could meet this criterion but determined 
that her initial submission lacked an explanation or evidence in support of that claim. The RFE 
instructed the Petitioner to provide relevant evidence such as letters from prior employers with detailed 
information explaining how her role was leading or critical to an organization or establishment. 
8 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted: (1) e-mails and promotional materials confirming 
that the Petitioner's agency booked her to participate in a promotional photo shoot for the I I 
2014 charity event for the Western Australian I J (2) e-mail confirming she was booked in 
a runway show for thel !Foundation charity gala in 2018; (3) an e-mail addressed to the 
Petitioner inviting her to participate in a charity event for a Youth Focus group; and (4) e-mails from I I Models soliciting models from its roster to participate in its 2014 
charity event and in the Charity event. The Petitioner provided additional documentation 
confirming her participation in the events. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner documented her participation as a model in various 
charity events but determined that the record lacked the requested evidence of her leading or critical 
role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 
Counsel's appellate brief emphasizes that the record contains casting and job confirmation emails, 
provides some additional background information regarding charity events in which the Petitioner 
participated, and mentions two additional events: a program launch event for the I I Fashion 
Festival and a I I Exhibition and Installation held in 2017. The brief also includes 
assertions that the Petitioner served as a I I at most or all of these events. Assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing 
Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be 
substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the evidence does not establish the Petitioner satisfies 
this criterion. While the evidence confirms the Petitioner's participation as a model at some notable 
charitable and cultural events, it does not establish whether or how she served in a leading or critical 
role for a specific organization or establishment ( or division or component thereof). Further, it is 
unclear whether she claims to meet this criterion based on a leading or critical role as a model for the 
agencies that represent her or based on her participation in a leading or critical role for the charitable 
organizations that held the referenced events, which makes it difficult to discern the "organization or 
establishment" in question. In this regard, we note that serving as a I I for a one-day event 
would not necessarily establish a person's leading or critical role within the organization or 
establishment that sponsors the event. 
Although specifically requested by the Director, the record lacks letters from individuals representing 
the Petitioner's employers or clients who have personal knowledge of the significance of her roles and 
who can speak specifically to such roles. Further, the Petitioner did not otherwise provide detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how her role for an organization or establishment, 
was leading or critical. For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence demonstrating that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner initially claimed she could satisfy this criterion but did not submit evidence in support 
of that claim. The Director advised her in the RFE that she would need to submit documentation of 
her annual earnings and evidence that would allow USCIS to compare her earnings to that of others 
9 
working in the field. If a petitioner claims to meet this criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner 
to provide appropriate evidence of their earnings or remuneration and evidence such as geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally, 6 USCJS Policy Manual at F.2 
Appendix . The Petitioner's response to the RFE included: 
• Copies of IRS Form 1042-S, Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding, 
indicating gross income of $14,740 in 2016 and $3906.66 in 2017. 
• Copy of her IRS Form 1040NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return for 2016 showing 
$3,456 in business income; 
• Letters from __________ _,indicating that this U.S. agency paid the Petitioner 
gross modeling fees of $18,425 in 2016 and $4883.33 in 2017. 
• Copies of year-end talent earnings statements from I I Models (Australia) for the fiscal 
years ended in 2016 through 2019, indicating annual earnings that ranged from a low of $1,845 
(2019) to a high of $11,061.15 (2017). 
The Director acknowledged this and other evidence of the Petitioner's past earnings but determined 
that she did not provide supporting documentation to demonstrate that her salary is high, or that her 
total remuneration is significantly high, in relation to others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the previously submitted evidence did not include 
"specification that shows what is high and low salaries" for models. She provides comparative wage 
data for models and fashion models in the United States and Australia from sources including 
CareerTrend.com, SalaryExplorer.com and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Where, as here, a 
petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Further, even if 
the Petitioner had submitted this evidence in response to the RFE, we observe that it does not support 
her claim that her salary "has far exceed[ ed] the average income of a working model in the United 
States." Rather, the record reflects that her documented U.S. and Australian earnings are below the 
average incomes reported in the newly submitted salary surveys. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) . 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits 
in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she appeared in an online music video for Sly Magazine and in 
promotional campaign videos/television commercials for I I I This evidence included e-mails confirming booking as well as screenshots from 
these projects. On appeal, the Petitioner references the previously submitted evidence of these "media 
shoots" as well as evidence that she appeared in videos published on the websites of Sunday Times 
Magazine and Hoture. The Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that documenting 
her appearances in promotional videos and commercials is not sufficient, in and of itself, to establish 
that she satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the types of evidence required by the plain language of this regulatory 
criterion, articulated a claim that this criterion does not apply to her occupation, or indicated that she 
was seeking to meet the criterion through comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 203.5(h)(4). While 
the evidence established that the Petitioner has appeared in advertisements for various companies, she 
has not shown, for example, that the success of the clients was attributable to her specific work as a 
model in their promotional campaigns or that her commercial appearances have attracted substantial 
audiences or generated significant sales. Further, as noted, evidence in support of this criterion must 
show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the perfonning arts. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence of such relative success. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the plain language requirements of 
this evidentiary criterion or that the evidence on which she relies is comparable to the evidence 
required by the criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the eight initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(iii) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve and will not address these remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 
(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and 
decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 l&N Dec. 568, 576-77 
n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved O-lB petition, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has 
approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior 
approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based 
on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have 
different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in 
the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F .R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But 
in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
11 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajfd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
Petitioner has achieved success as an international fashion model, the record does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372953 Date: MAY 2, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established his intent to continue work in his area 
expertise in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
ofhis or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have performed as an actor in theater and television in Argentina. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one ofthese six, relating to published materials in 
professional publications or major media, and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision contains multiple errors and oversights 
and asserts that he meets five additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met a second criterion, relating to the 
display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. However , he has not established , as required, 
that he satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
2 
I Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecialization for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires an individual to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specialization. 1 The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility 
for this criterion. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility under this criterion based on his service as a talent advisor for fashion designer 
where he helped select runway models to participate in its 2019 Fall-Winter fashion 
show. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the show's producer who indicates his involvement in the 
event's model casting held at a hotel ballroom in Argentina onI I 2019, noting that the 
Petitioner and the rest of the jury "were in charge of the organization, planning, and selection of 
talents." The producer further stated that the Petitioner "was in charge of analyzing and weigh[ing] 
up the talents of each and every model based on their scenic attitudes artistic development and runway 
abilities, since the show had a futuristic theme." The Petitioner's evidence also included several 
articles commenting generally on the fashion show, which was held inl 2019. The articles do 
not reference the Petitioner or his role in the show's model casting. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion and 
concluded the evidence indicated he judged persons in an unrelated field instead of in his or an allied 
field. Specifically, the Director determined that the Petitioner's participation in the selection and 
casting of models for a fashion show was insufficient to show that he has acted as a judge of the work 
of others in the field of acting, his claimed field of specialization. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination, noting that "his knowledge as an 
actor and his vast experience across different platforms make him an ideal individual to judge the 
artistic talent of each model and their potential within the entertainment industry." He further argues 
that the Director conflated "profession" with "field," and asserts that modeling and acting fall within 
the same field of arts and entertainment. 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Regardless of the field, the judging activities must be clearly 
described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence should demonstrate with specificity 
whose work and what type of work the individual judged. 
The Petitioner did not establish how participating in a talent casting to select runway models for a 
fashion show is tantamount to participating as a judge of the work of others. Although the show's 
producer stated in his letter that jurors were tasked with selecting talents through a model casting, he 
did not mention that the jury panel was responsible for scoring contestants or otherwise selecting 
winners. The record lacks official guidelines or rules for the event indicating the specific 
responsibilities for a juror, and there is no evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged 
the work of individuals in the same or an allied field. For example, while the producer indicates that 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
the Petitioner served as a jury member and was a "key evaluator" in the ultimate selection of33 models 
to participate in the show, it is unclear if the Petitioner's role as an evaluator actually required the 
Petitioner to judge the work of individuals, such as assigning points or determining winners, rather 
than merely moderating or engaging in discussions with other jury panel members regarding the 
selection of models. As constituted, the record does not establish the nature of the Petitioner's 
participation in the event, the names of the individuals whose work he judged, the competitive 
divisions or categories, if any, to which he was assigned, or the selection criteria. Merely submitting 
a letter stating he was a jury member, without evidence demonstrating who he judged or the nature of 
the event, is insufficient to establish eligibility for this regulatory criterion. Without further 
information or corroborating documentation, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the letter is 
sufficient to establish that he judged the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, although the record contains press articles about the producer's fashion show held in 
2019, there is no discussion of the model casting held one month prior to the show in which the 
Petitioner participated. The Petitioner did not provide copies ofpublished press releases or any other 
supporting documentation regarding the I 2019 model casting, his judging activities or the 
nature ofthe event he claims to have judged. Therefore, although we have considered the testimonial 
evidence discussed above, the record lacks specificity and corroborating evidence of the Petitioner's 
role in the model casting and is insufficient to establish that his activities involved judging the work 
of others as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As such, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
While the Director concluded otherwise, the record contains sufficient documents demonstrating that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion, which requires a showing that his work was artistic in nature and 
was on display at artistic exhibitions or showcases.2 
In the RFE, the Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." In response to 
the RFE and again on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's interpretation that the plain 
language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists was erroneous, and 
we agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a 
given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed 
be artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As such, certain exhibitions or 
showcases featuring the work of performing artists may meet the plain language of this regulation. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner performed as an actor in numerous theater productions in 
Argentina, and submitted evidence demonstrating that the venues where his performances were 
rendered are artistic in nature. In light of the above, the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
2 See id. (stating that officers should use the common dictionary definitions of"exhibition" and ""showcase" in evaluating 
this criterion). 
4 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a leading or critical role for various theater "establishments" 
such as I Iwhere he played the lead role of II He also 
noted that the accom an in ress articles confirmed his leading and critical roles in both I 
The Petitioner asserts that the press articles, 
accompanied by the recommendation letter fro ________ demonstrate that he meets 
this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his 
theatrical performances and discussed the recommendation letter he provided. However, the Director 
determined that the evidence did not establish the Petitioner's leading role or demonstrate that his 
performances contributed in a way that was of significant importance to the theaters in which he 
performed. 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments." 
Here, while the Petitioner has had lead roles in the above-referenced projects, he did not demonstrate 
how the plays in which he has appeared qualify as organizations or establishments consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. Therefore, the Petitioner's acting credits and articles that mention these roles are 
not sufficient to meet this criterion. 
We have also reviewed testimonial evidence in evaluating whether the Petitioner meets this criterion, 
specifically the letter froml Iwriter and director of who 
confirms that the Petitioner held a lead roles in this play. Although his letter praises the Petitioner's 
talent, noting that he is a "good artist with an innovative approach to acting," his statement does not 
offer detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the Petitioner's role for this 
production was leading or critical. Therefore, even if we determined that he held a leading or critical 
role for a distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to meet the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that the theaters in which he 
performed his roles have distinguished reputations. However, the record contains insufficient evidence 
to establish that the Petitioner held a leading position or essential role for the theaters. For instance, the 
record does not contain evidence describing the hierarchy of the theaters or explaining where the 
Petitioner's claimed position fit in the overall structure ofthe theaters. Moreover, the evidence of record 
did not demonstrate how his performances in the plays contributed to the successes or standings of the 
theaters. While the evidence of record confirms the Petitioner's performances in plays, the record is not 
5 
supported by detailed, probative information demonstrating the leading or critical role he performed for 
the theaters. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in his field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 3 
The Petitioner provided copies of contracts for work in individual television and film projects along 
with a summary of each project and its remuneration. His claim that he has commanded a high salary 
is primarily based on the daily wage or flat rate payments he has received for his work on certain 
projects. The record does not contain evidence of his overall salary and other remuneration from all 
sources for any given year, nor is it clear based on the evidence submitted how frequently he is engaged 
to work on a project-by-project basis. Several of the projects documented in the record through 
contracts, as summarized in the document entitled "sampling of contracts," required a short 
commitment of one day, with numerous other "campaigns" lasting approximately 12 months. 
As noted by the Director, although the Petitioner submitted a summary of the contracts in English, 
which identified the project, duration, and wage paid, the Petitioner did not submit certified 
translations for each ofthe contracts submitted. Despite being informed ofthis evidentiary deficiency 
in the RFE, the Petitioner declined to provide the requested translations. Any document in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The 
translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner 
did not submit a properly certified English language translation of each contract, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's 
claims. 
The Petitioner also provided comparative salary data from the Bureau ofLabor Statistics (BLS), which 
shows that actors in the United States earned a mean hourly wage of $39.84 in 2016, with the 75th 
percentile earning at least $44.36 per hour. 4 In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this 
criterion, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that he has commanded a high 
salary compared to other television and theater actors based on the evidence of payments he received 
for individual projects,. As noted, while the Petitioner submitted various forms of evidence in support 
of this criterion, the record does not clearly show his total salary or total remuneration for his work as 
an actor in any given year. Further, the record contains no evidence regarding salaries of actors in 
3 See id. (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
4 On appeal, the Petitioner also submits 2021 salary data for actors/performers from the BLS. 
6 
Argentina that could serve as a basis for comparison had the Petitioner offered evidence of his annual 
salary, or that his compensation, in total, is high compared to others in the field. 
Thus, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 5 Fulfilling the criterion is not simply a matter of demonstrating credited 
involvement in a commercially successful film or show. 
Here, the Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on evidence demonstrating high attendance 
at his playl IIn support of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted a 
press article stating that"[m ]ore than 5000 people have already seen them!" The Petitioner also claims 
high viewership for a television projectJ in which he engaged, and submitted articles 
regarding the rating points and total views of this production. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." While the Petitioner 
has appeared in plays and television programming, he has not shown that the success of those 
productions was attributable to his specific work as an actor. The record contains no evidence of sales 
in the form of box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his theatrical or televised performances have 
attracted substantial audiences. In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved 
in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 6 Here, the record does not include evidence identifying the 
Petitioner as having commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is the evidence 
sufficient to demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned plays or television 
programs in which he appeared were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. 7 
The Petitioner also failed to provide evidence of his commercial successes in the performing arts, 
rather than the successes of performances in which he took part. The record contains no evidence that 
demonstrated how the successes of these performances could predominantly be attributed to him. As 
a result, the Petitioner has not provided qualifying evidence under this criterion, and consequently has 
not established that he meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
5 See id .. 
6 See id. 
7 For example, with respect to the programl lin which he acted, the Petitioner has not shown that its 
television ratings or viewing audience increased significantly once he joined their acting cast. 
7 
B. Intent to Continue to Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding his intent to continue working in his 
claimed area of expertise. 8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are 
not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act requires "the alien to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability." In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S) states that "the petition must be accompanied 
by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expe1tise." See also 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2) (providing that to qualify as a person of extraordinary ability, the beneficiary must 
intend to continue work in the area of his or her expertise). 
8 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26666847 Date: MAY 3, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology project manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision; a combined motion to reopen and reconsider; and 
a motion to reopen. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence ofnew facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial ofthe petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot 
use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages ofthe proceeding. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner worked as an IT manager forl when he filed the petition in 2016. He 
later worked as a lead business systems analyst for Emerson Automated Solutions, and then as 
manager ofIT Systems and Administration for I Hotels. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Our prior decisions include a fuller discussion of the procedural history, but to summarize: we 
previously concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria: judging the work ofothers (8 C.F .R. 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv)) and publication of scholarly articles (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)). The Petitioner's 
first two motions centered on two other claimed criteria: membership in associations that require 
outstanding achievements (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)) and high remuneration for services (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix)). 
We dismissed the Petitioner's second motion in May 2022 for two reasons. First, the Petitioner did not 
establish that status as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts, as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Second, the Petitioner's new evidence was too broad and general to 
establish that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in 
relation to others in the field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We also noted that, had the 
proceeding reached a final merits determination as described in Kazarian, the petition still would not be 
approvable because the record does not indicate that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim in his field and reached the very top of his field as required by section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner maintains that he has satisfied the criterion relating to memberships. 
In previous decisions, we acknowledged that IEEE selects senior members through review panels, with 
panelists selected "from the local IEEE Section." We concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that 
the panelists are nationally or internationally recognized experts. We also identified significant 
distinctions between the "senior member" and "fellow" grades ofIEEE membership. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner states: 
According to IEEE website and guidelines, Senior member nomination panel . . . 
reviewers are recruited among Senior members, Life Senior members, and Fellows in the 
section where the meeting is to be held. . . . Senior members, Life Senior members and 
Fellow members ofIEEE are all experts and experienced in their respective career fields. 
There are IEEE members who have won Nobel prizes in the past and some ofthem have 
served on the panel ofreviewers. 
This assertion is essentially a rephrasing of the Petitioner's earlier statement that "panel members are 
experts in their chosen fields." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) does not merely require 
"experts"; it requires "recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." The 
Petitioner's latest filing does not show that review panelists meet this much higher threshold. 
IEEE convenes review panels six times a year to consider applications for senior member status. 
Materials submitted on motion indicate that "review panel meetings are held in various locations 
throughout the world," and "[a] panel of reviewers is recruited among Senior members, Life Senior 
members, and Fellows in the section where the meeting is to be held." 1 In our May 2022 decision, we 
concluded that this information indicates that each panel consists of local members. The Petitioner 
disputes this conclusion, stating: "IEEE is referring to the section (region) where the meeting is taking 
place and not local communities nor local city. IEEE has ten (10) regions." The materials submitted on 
1 https://www.ieee.org/membership/senior/review-panel.html. 
3 
motion refute the Petitioner's attempt to equate "sections" with "regions." A submitted printout from 
IEEE's website states that the organization has "343 Sections in ten geographic Regions worldwide."2 
The submitted evidence does not show that panel membership is limited to nationally or internationally 
recognized experts, or that reviewers are recruited from throughout regions rather than sections. 
The Petitioner contends: "The only difference between a senior member and a fellow member is the 
number ofyears, which states that you have to be a Senior member for five (5) years before you can be 
nominated to be a fellow member." The Petitioner observes that he has been a senior member for over 
five years, and "as such, is qualified to be nominated to the fellow member category." But the Petitioner 
then quotes materials from IEEE that refute his argument. 
The quoted materials state that only senior or life senior members are eligible to become fellows, but the 
IEEE does not require five years in either grade. Rather, they require "five full years (consecutive or not) 
of full IEEE membership in any grade."3 More significantly, to qualify for elevation to IEEE fellow 
grade, a senior member must "[h]]ave accomplishments that have contributed importantly to the 
advancement or application ofengineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of significant 
value to society ."4 Candidates for senior member grade must meet the much lower threshold of five years 
of"significant performance," which may include "[s ]ubstantial job responsibilities such as team leader, 
task supervisor, [or] engineer in charge ofa program or project."5 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner has not established that senior member grade in IEEE 
constitutes membership in an association in the field for which classification is sought, which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner has not shown error in our May 2022 decision, to warrant 
reconsideration of that decision, and the evidence submitted on motion does not show proper cause to 
reopen the proceeding. 
The remainder ofthe Petitioner's statement on motion concerns how his "work will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States," as required by section 203(b)(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. Our May 2022 
decision did not address the issue of prospective benefit, and therefore this discussion does not allege 
error that would warrant reconsideration of the May 2022 decision. Also, the discussion of substantial 
prospective benefit does not cite any new evidence as required for a motion to reopen. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
combined motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 https://www.ieee.org/about/at-a-glance.html. 
3 https://www.ieee.org/membership/fellows/steps.html. 
4 Id. 
5 https://www.ieee.org/membership/senior/senior-requirements.html. 
4 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the 
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 24512109 Date: MAY 04, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economist and political scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as an economist 
and political scientist. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following six criteria: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Original contribution of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Leading or critical role; and 
• Commercial successes in performing arts. 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the regulatory criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that he meets the initially claimed regulatory criteria, except for commercial 
successes in performing arts under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), stating he withdraws his claim for this 
criterion. After reviewing the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets the requisite 
three criteria.1 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To establish this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate their receipt of awards or prizes, and that 
those awards or prizes were granted to acknowledge excellence in the field and are nationally or 
internationally recognized. The Director found that the Petitioner's receipt of thel II I did not meet the criterion since the Petitioner "did not submit major trade 
publications or other major media conveying that the medal is nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor (political science)." In the decision, the Director explained that 
news articles submitted suggest the medal may have been given to the Petitioner not for excellence in 
the field, but instead for his employment status at the ________ 
While the Petitioner does not deny receiving the medal as al I employee, the articles and 
other evidence in the record do not indicate or suggest the Petitioner's employment status with the 
I lwas the reason for his receipt of the medal. Instead, the articles name some of the 
medal's notable recipients specifically and generally mention that some recipients are I I 
employees. 
Relevant considerations in determining whether an award was granted for excellence in the field 
include the following: the criteria used to grant the award, national or international significance of the 
award in the field, and the number of awardees taking into consideration any limitations on 
competitors.2 We agree with the Petitioner's argument that the Kazakhstan Presidential decree 
establishing the medal conveys the national recognition of the medal for significant contributions in 
the fields of economics and political science. 
The decree issued by the President of Kazakhstan states the I I was established to 
commemorate the 20th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence and of the Tenge, the Kazakhstan 
currency. While the decree does not provide for specific criteria for awarding the medal, it sets out 
general rules authorizing the chairman and other authorized persons of thel Ito award the 
medal on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan to citizens and foreigners "who have made a significant 
contribution to the functioning of the national currency" of Kazakhstan. The decree, as well as the 
articles, explain the significance ofKazakhstan's currency to its economy and political independence, 
and the importance of the award to recognize Kazakhstan citizens and foreign leaders who have made 
significant contributions to the development and strengthening of the sovereignty of Kazakhstan. We 
find that the Petitioner established the national or international recognition of the I lfor 
excellence in the fields of economics and political science, and withdraw the Director's finding to the 
contrary. 
The Petitioner meets the preponderance of evidence standard for meeting this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence for his receipt of other awards, most of which appear to have been 
academic awards. Given the Petitioner has met the criterion with his receipt of thel Ithe 
other awards will be considered in the final merits determination. 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the plain language of the criterion since the articles 
submitted were not about the Petitioner's work as a political scientist, and the evidence was insufficient 
to demonstrate the national readership at the time of the publication. The Director references an 
article published in Zhas Alash, __________ stating the article "is not about 
[the Petitioner's] work as a political scientist." The Director further explains that the evidence 
submitted about the publication, Zhas Alash, does not "convey its national readership in 1996" and 
does not demonstrate it is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
The Petitioner argues the article describes the Petitioner's educational successes, including earning a 
presidential scholarship and degrees in economics and international economics. We agree with the 
Petitioner that the record sufficiently demonstrates the article is about the Petitioner and relates to his 
work in political science and economics. 
The article is an interview with the Petitioner focusing on his having been part of a new academic 
scholarship program initiated by Kazakhstan's President after the country's independence from 
U.S.S.R. The program selects students to study abroad and return to Kazakhstan with specialized 
knowledge to help the country's development. The article explains the Petitioner received a master's 
degree in international economics and had since returned to Kazakhstan having been employed as an 
economics specialist with the 
______________ The article provides the Petitioner's perspective on the 
importance of having specialists with Kazakhstan's new social structure stating, "Market relations, 
privatization, self-financing, private ownership rather than state ownership is necessary to understand 
that the growth of private property is not just another campaign, as in the former socialist society, but 
a necessity of real life, a reality of development." The article further describes the Petitioner's 
perspective on other economic issues of Kazakhstan as a newly developed country. We find the article 
is about the Petitioner and relates to his work in his fields of political science and economics. 
The Petitioner also argues the evidence submitted demonstrates the publication, Zhas Alash, has been 
in existence for over 90 years becoming "a major republic publication." The record includes a 
Wikipedia summary of Zhas Alash explaining the history of the publication as a socio-political 
newspaper in Khazakstan which is published twice a week. The summary explains Zhas Alash was 
founded in 1921 in the Soviet Union continuing post-Soviet era as an independent socio-political 
newspaper. In 2000, the paper received an award and had a circulation of 50,000. The evidence 
demonstrates Zhas Alash being a major trade or professional publication at the time of the article was 
published in 1996. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. We therefore withdraw the Director's finding. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner contends he qualifies for this criterion based on his reports published in conference 
materials; his book, and articles he wrote for magazines, journals, and 
other publications. The Director found that he did not provide evidence that the publications or sources 
are professional or major trade publications, or other major media. Also, the Director found that the 
reports and articles "do not appear to be scholarly or in the field ofpolitical science." On appeal, the 
Petitioner states his previously submitted evidence demonstrates his eligibility for this criterion. 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements. The first element requires that the Petitioner is 
an author of scholarly articles in his field. We consider these articles within two distinct areas. The 
first area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. The second area lies outside of the 
academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
"Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned 
persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendices). 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in a professional 
publication, a major trade publication, or in a form of major media. Regarding the medium in which 
the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the publication's circulation statistics are high 
relative to similar publications and should also establish the publication's intended audience. Id. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Among the multiple reports and articles submitted by the Petitioner, he submitted a report entitled, _____________________________ which was 
presented at a conference, 11 International Conference, organized by the Republican State Enterprise 
Institute for Economic Research of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. The record shows the conference published a collection of the presenters' reports, 
including the Petitioner's rep01i. The conference material includes an introductory summary 
explaining the conference's purpose was to analyze the "international practice of infrastructure 
development by the private sector"; the conference attendees included scientists, specialists, and 
employees in the banking and economic industries; and an explanation that the conference material is 
intended for "economists and professionals interested in the development of public and private 
partnerships for the creation of infrastructure facilities in Kazakhstan." 
The Petitioner's report and the summary of the conference material indicates the published material 
was intended for learned persons in the Petitioner's fields of economics and political science. Also, 
the collection of conference material qualifies as professional trade material since it was provided to 
scientists, specialists, and employees focused on the Petitioner's fields of economics and political 
science. 
5 
Accordingly, the record demonstrates the Petitioner meets the basic parameters applicable to evidence 
under this criterion. We withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (vi), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence in the record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l){A){i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 28115531 Date: MAY 05, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a costume designer for athletes and performers, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the classification's initial evidence requirement through evidence of 
either a one-time achievement or which met the requirements ofat least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner 's I-290B was initially assigned receipt numbed On May 4 2023 we issued 
correspondence notifying the Petitioner that this had been changed to the current receipt number I 
This is an internal processing change only. I 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a designer of costumes worn by athletes, particularly figure skaters, ice dancers, and 
synchronized swimming athletes, as well theater performers. The evidence indicates that her costumes 
have been worn by athletes during several Olympic Garnes and world championships. She currently 
lives and works in the United States and intends to continue to design costumes. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found in his decision that the Petitioner did not meet any 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she 
meets four of the evidentiary criteria. 3 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
she does not meet the requisite three criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested classification. 
In addition to her brief, the Petitioner also submits additional evidence in support of her claimed 
criteria. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 
2 The Director indicated in his request for evidence (RFE) that the Petitioner met the evidentiary cntena at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, but did not mention this 
criterion in his decision. 
3 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision with regards to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(vi), 
relating to her authorship of scholarly articles. In general, we will not address issues that were not raised with specificity 
on appeal. We will therefore consider this issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 
I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The Director's RFE spelled out the deficiencies in the evidence initially 
submitted and listed additional evidence which could be submitted to address those deficiencies, and 
the Petitioner responded with additional evidence. We therefore will not consider the evidence 
submitted on appeal. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on evidence ofher membershi in two associations: the _____________ and the ___________________ 
Regarding the former, the Director acknowledged the evidence of her membership beginning in 1989 
in the las well as a letter from Iformer Chairman 
of the Moscow Board of the organization, but concluded that the letter was overly broad and did not 
show that the association required outstanding achievements of its members. The Director also noted 
information from the website of the which indicates that it was established onl I 
1991, and includes a list of documentation to be submitted for membership, but determined that this 
did not sufficiently demonstrate that outstanding achievements are required or that the documentation 
was reviewed by national or international design experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the newly submitted evidence, but as stated above we will not 
consider this evidence. While she asserts that the is is the legal successor to theI I 
4 I I this is not indicated in the webpage. 4 More importantly, the relevance ofthe evidence 
regarding the is not apparent, as the Petitioner did not submit evidence of her membership in 
that association. I I letter states that the I I ceased to exist in 1991, and does not 
specifically mention the or indicate whether former members of theI lwould have been 
automatically accepted by the or would have had to submit applications. Further, we agree with 
the Director that his letter does not sufficiently establish that the I I required outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by national or international experts. 
Turning to the Petitioner's membership in thel lthe only evidence she refers to on a eal is a 
letter from I I who states that he was a former president ofthe association. 
confirms that the Petitioner "has been a member of the ______________ as an 
outstanding artist," and that she has created costumes for the Russian national team at the World 
Championships and the Olympic Games. However, he does not provide any information regarding 
the requirements for membership in the I Inor does the record otherwise contain such evidence. 
The Petitioner has not established that her membership in this association meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
As the Petitioner has not shown that her memberships in the __ or the I_ required 
outstanding achievements, she does not meet this criterion. 
4 The Petitioner bases this assertion on the submitted evidence, but we note that that evidence appears to be from 
the website of a different association, not the newly
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, evidence of published material must be about the individual and their 
work in the field, be published in one of the qualifying media types, and include the identifying 
information specified. While the individual and their work need not be the sole subject of the 
published material, it should include a substantial discussion of the individual's work and a mention 
of the individual in connection to that work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices 
Tab. The Director concluded that, for varying reasons, none ofthe evidence submitted met all ofthese 
elements. 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner first addresses two articles regarding bathing suits she designed, 
asserting that missing pages from the article in Where Moscow discuss her and her work. However, 
the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that this article is about her, and the evidence from 
Marie Claire consists only of a caption accompanying a photo showing one of her swimsuits being 
modeled. Neither of these materials includes a substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner also asserts that materials appearing in five other publications should be considered to 
meet this criterion, as all ofthe publications qualify as major media. All of these articles are about the 
Petitioner and her work, and include the required date, author and title. But the evidence does not 
establish that the websites on which they were published qualify as major media. For example, in 
support ofthe materials published on the websites ofLIFE, Komsomolskaya Pravda, and RIA Novosti, 
the Petitioner submitted only pages from Wikipedia about these companies. As there are no assurances 
about the reliability ofthe content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia 
will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008). 5 In addition, even if we were to consider this evidence, it does not include information 
showing that viewership of these websites is high when compared to other similar websites such that 
they can be considered as major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
As none of the published materials meet all of the elements under this criterion, we agree with the 
Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
5 See also the online content from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_disclaimer, accessed on April 14, 
2023, and copy incorporated into the record of proceeding is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information ... 
. Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity ofthe information found here. The content ofany given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not conespond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
4 
I Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In support of her qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from 
lwho states that he is one of the founders of theI IFigure 
Skating Awards. I I states in this letter that the Petitioner was "invited by the organizing 
committee as a consultant and a member ofthe panel tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019-
20." In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a new letter from who 
reiterates that she was invited to be a member ofthe selection committee for 2020 Skating Awards. 
He goes on to state that in addition to her role on the organizing committee, she conducted the 
preliminary selection of contestants for the "best costume" award "for subsequent voting by the 
audience and members of the jury, of which she was a member." However, a press release from the 
Skating A wards was also submitted, and it indicates that a long list of candidates was voted on 
through an online system by the media, public, and ISU members, not by a jury. 6 The Petitioner must 
resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Since these materials are inconsistent 
regarding the judging process for the awards, we will not afford I lletters evidentiary 
weight. Therefore, the record does not show that the Petitioner served as a judge ofthe work of others 
for the 2020 Skating Awards. 
The Petitioner also asserts that she served as a member of the organizing committee for the First 
____________ as well as on a jury which judged a competition for young fashion 
designers within this event. She bases this assertion upon a letter froml Iwho states that 
he was head of the sports department of the newspaper which sponsored the fair. He also writes that 
in addition to this fair, the Petitioner was invited to "other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." However, this letter lacks sufficient specifics regarding 
these contests, such as the dates of the events, the number or age of the contestants, or any additional 
information about the events themselves. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a 
letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of 
Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it 
is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter ofS-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The 
Board also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative 
testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id. Iftestimonial evidence lacks specificity, 
detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter 
of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). As the Director noted, there is also a lack of documentary 
evidence in the record to support the statements in I I letters. As such, we agree that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
6 The press release (issued prior to the 2020 awards) does indicate that the final awards were to be dete1mined by a jury. 
but the Petitioner does not claim to have been a part of this jury. 
5 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that her work has been displayed at figure skating, ice dancing, and 
synchronized swimming competitions, as well as theatrical performances and other artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. She has therefore established that she meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Per the above, the Petitioner has established that she meets one of the five evidentiary criteria she 
claims on appeal. While she also asserts that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
relating to original contributions ofmajor significance to her field, we need not determine whether she 
meets that criterion. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 7 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that they 
are one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26480903 Date: MAY 08, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a showjumping horse groom, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. 1 USCIS must consider whether the regulatory criteria are 
readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation.2 A petitioner should explain why he has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3).3 General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an 
occupation are not probative and should be discounted.4 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts she is an individual of extraordinary ability as agroom for showjumping horses. 
The record reflects that a horse groom oversees the horse's management, particularly during the 
exhaustion and stress of travel and competitions. Grooms reinforce the training already in place, 
monitor for injuries, and care for the horse's physical and emotional health. Distinct from 
veterinarians and farriers, a groom professionally assesses the horse's welfare, prepares the horse for 
competition, and administers nutrition and medicines, among other duties. The Petitioner provided 
evidence clarifying that grooms for showjumping horses differ from grooms for other equestrian 
disciplines. She explained the Federation Equestre Internationale (FEI) is the sole governing body for 
showjumping competitions and that it represents the ultimate level of difficulty for both horses and 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id at 12. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
riders worldwide. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's determination that she has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award. Therefore, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Prior to this appeal, the Petitioner asserted her eligibility 
under numerous criteria, including 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (viii), and (ix). The Director 
determined the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
related to performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations, but 
that she had not established eligibility under any of the other criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
the Director erred in determining the evidentiary criteria apply to her occupation and in not accepting 
the Petitioner's alternate evidence under criteria (i) and (ii) as comparable. 5 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate she received prizes or awards, and that 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.6 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the individual's 
receipt ofthe awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt ofthe awards or prizes.7 
The Petitioner explained that by regulation, FEI limits competitors to only riders and horses. She stated, 
she cannot receive awards because grooms are not considered competition participants. Various articles 
describe grooms as unsung heroes, essential and vital behind-the-scenes workers, and not formally 
recognized stakeholders in acompetition. The Petitioner submitted numerous letters from showjumping 
riders and other horse support staff explaining that the best evidence of a groom's ability is the awards, 
recognition, and achievements of the riders/horses with whom a groom works. Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner acknowledges an FEI Groom of the Year award exists in her field. However, she does not 
assert she won this or any other award. Instead, she provided other evidence, which she asserts is 
comparable. 
The Petitioner explained why the FEI Groom of the Year award does not meet the plain language of this 
criterion for various reasons, including that it is not awarded for excellence in the field. The Petitioner 
recognizes awards exist for her field but argues that awards for excellence do not exist in her field. 
Although the Petitioner provided the reasoning the FEI Groom of the Year award does not establish her 
5 Because she has not raised them on appeal, we consider issues related to the Director's determination of her ineligibility 
under the other criteria to have been abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 {BIA 2012) (stating 
that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda 
v. US Att'v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 
(11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) 
(plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
7 Id. 
3 
eligibility under this criterion, her ineligibility under this criterion does not establish that an award does 
not or could not exist in her field. 
Even if the Petitioner established the criterion does not apply to her field of endeavor, we would still 
conclude the evidence provided is not comparable. First, there is little independent and objective evidence 
linking the Petitioner to any particular horses or riders in the competition. The competition result printouts 
and rankings do not name the Petitioner and other evidence indicates that media coverage for grooms is 
nonexistent or rare. The support letters appear to be the only evidence establishing aconnection between 
the Petitioner's management of the horse(s) and any particular competitions, riders, or award(s). The 
Director explained, the letters, "while not without weight, cannot form the cornerstone of asuccessful 
petition." Similarly, we conclude the letters from former employers and coworkers are probative but 
not necessarily sufficient to evidence the Petitioner's role as a groom or her extraordinary ability in 
the field. 8 
Even if the Petitioner provided independent and objective evidence to establish a link between her 
work and a particular horse/rider/competition, we could not conclude her work is the primary reason 
for the rider/horse winning the award. The evidence suggests thousands of grooms exist in the 
occupation and that a groom can metaphorically add or subtract zeros to the monetary value of a horse. 
The Petitioner further explained that riders choose their grooms. Despite the number of grooms and their 
purported importance, the evidence does not indicate what factors riders consider when choosing their 
grooms. Moreover, the Petitioner has not explained how riders know about which grooms to choose. We 
do not know, for example, if riders select available grooms through adatabase, a groom ranking system, 
word of mouth, poaching other riders' grooms after a competition, or simply accepting the groom that 
works with the horse they select. The evidence does not illuminate how many grooms each horse has 
or how many horses each groom has under their care. 
Nor does the evidence offer a direct comparison ofthe Petitioner's abilities to other grooms' abilities. 
The authors of the support letters do not provide detailed explanations of what they considered when 
choosing the Petitioner as their groom or how many times they selected the Petitioner over another 
groom, nor does the record contain the selection rates of other grooms. The evidence does not reflect 
how many of the Petitioner's horses did not win awards, that all the Petitioner's horses performed 
equally, or that her horses outperformed other grooms' horses so consistently and to such extent that 
we could isolate the Petitioner's ability as the reason. Further, the record does not indicate that due to 
the Petitioner's work, individual horses have sold at a higher dollar amount than other horses. As the 
evidence does not establish a baseline for any groom's ability, nor does it offer a sufficient comparison 
between grooms, we conclude the evidence, including the support letters, is not comparable. 
Although the Petitioner's field of endeavor may present evidentiary challenges for the extraordinary 
ability classification, we cannot lower the standard of proof, shift the Petitioner's burden, change the 
plain language of the criteria, or accept evidence that is not comparable. The Petitioner must support 
her assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 
369, 376 (AAO 2010). We conclude the criterion applies to the Petitioner's field of endeavor and that 
8 Many of the letters contain identical language with signature pages that differ in appearance from the rest of the letter. 
This undermines a conclusion that the authors independently wrote their letters and further suggests the authors signed 
letters written on their behalf. 
4 
even if it did not, the evidence provided would not be comparable. For the foregoing reasons, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.9 
The Petitioner does not assert she is a member of either the International Grooms Association (IGA), 
which describes itselfas "professional association for grooms who compete at PEI international level," 
or of the British Grooms Association (BGA). The Petitioner provides the reasoning and analysis for 
why membership in the IGA and BGA would not establish her eligibility under this criterion, but in 
so doing, she acknowledges that associations do exist in her field of endeavor. As with the criterion 
discussed above, the Petitioner's ineligibility under this criterion does not establish the inapplicability 
of this criterion to her. 
Even if the Petitioner established the criterion does not apply to her field of endeavor, we would still 
conclude the evidence is not comparable. The Petitioner asserted that her horses/riders participated in 
elite teams, series, and finals, and that as a prerequisite for these, national and international experts 
determined that such riders/horses had outstanding achievements. Because her riders/horses qualified 
for the teams, series, and finals, the Petitioner asserts their involvement and outstanding achievement 
is comparable evidence under this criterion. 
Even if we were to accept that elite teams, series, and finals constitute "associations," within the 
meaning of this criterion, such associations would not be in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. Rather, 
the associations would be for riders and showjumpers. A rider's outstanding achievements are as a 
rider and a horse's as a showjumper; neither's achievements are in the groom field of endeavor. 
Viewing the evidence in the manner the Petitioner requests, i.e., that a groom's outstanding 
achievements are determined based upon the horse or rider's performance, we still conclude the 
evidence is not comparable for the same reasons we explained in our analysis of the prior criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude the criterion applies to the Petitioner's field of endeavor and 
that even if it did not, the evidence provided would not be comparable. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
not established eligibility under this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of 
extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed 
on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5 
visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. V. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA us V. 
US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 
1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 
C. Summary 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement award, 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria, or comparable evidence. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude the Petitioner's assertions 
negate a finding of acclaim and recognition. Specifically, the Petitioner stated she performs behind­
the-scenes work, is an unsung hero not formally recognized in a competition, and that media attention 
for her is rare or nonexistent. Accordingly, the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perf01ming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field or that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the 
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 25820197 Date: MAY 11, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, met at 
least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal, and four subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider. The matter is now before us 
on a fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence 
regarding his recent activities and his social media presence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or has 
established that our decision to dismiss the prior combined motion was based on an incorrect 
application of law or USCIS policy. We incorporate all our prior decisions by reference and will 
repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's claims on fifth motion. 
While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his 
previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or 
USCIS policy and was incorrect at the time of that decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5)(a)(3). 
The Petitioner states on fifth motion that he is "submitting evidence ofmy achievements as an athlete 
and as acoach; letters from reputable organizations in the field of martial arts; evidence of recognition 
of my unique style and presence on the worldwide web; pictures at the various competitions where I 
participated as an athlete and as a coach." This statement does not identify any incorrect application 
of law or USCIS policy in our September 2022 decision nor does it contain any specific claim that our 
September 2022 decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of that decision. 
The motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and therefore the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires us to dismiss the motion. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for anew trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCIS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "ifproceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen aproceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
The Petitioner's evidence on motion may be summarized as follows: 
2 
• 2022 letter from a martial arts coach describing the Petitioner's activities as a coach and his 
participation in 2021 and 2022 tournaments and competitions; 
• Screenshots of undated social media photos and posts featuring a person we presume to be the 
Petitioner performing various martial arts poses and other social media users commenting on 
them; 
• Unsigned 2022 letter on _________ letterhead, stating how they met the 
Petitioner and follow him on social media; 
• December 2022 letter from a martial arts coach praising the Petitioner and stating that he met the 
Petitioner in 2015; 
• December 2022 letters from two mothers whose children the Petitioner coaches; 
• Photos of children wearing medals or holding certificates and standing near aperson we presume 
to be the Petitioner; 
• Advertisements for upcoming competitions listing the Petitioner as a competitor; 
• Photos of a person we presume to be the Petitioner at 2021 and 2022 martial arts competitions in 
the United States; 
• Information on how to register or attend martial arts competitions; 
• Lists of people who won medals at a 2015 European Universities Karate Championship; 
• Copy of 20211 !competition results, listing the Petitioner as winning third place in one 
category and accompanied by photos; and 
• Copy of 2021 USA Karate Nationals results, listing athletes the Petitioner may have coached and 
accompanied by photos. 
The Petitioner has submitted this same type of evidence in his previous motions and appeal, and we have 
thoroughly addressed the reasons it does not establish eligibility for the requested classification.1 As such, 
this evidence is not new and does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen. In addition, the 
Petitioner's description of the evidence, as quoted above in relation to the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider, does not identify the criteria under which we should consider this evidence. The Petitioner 
has not explained (1) the relevance of this evidence to his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability, or (2) how it establishes eligibility at the time of filing. Accordingly, even if these were new facts 
and evidence, they would not warrant reopening the proceedings. 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening the proceedings. Therefore, the motion to reopen 
must be dismissed. 
1 Some of this evidence appears to relate to the Petitioner as a coach and not as an athlete who performs the sport. The 
Petitioner has not offered sufficient explanation or evidence to demonstrate that his coaching children in martial arts relates 
to his ability as martial arts athlete. Although a competitive athlete and a coach may both share knowledge of the sport, 
we draw a distinction between the skills required for each. See, e.g., Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, 
LLC v. USCIS, 131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Ohio 2015) (noting that '·competitive athletics and coaching are not the same area 
of expertise" and citing Lee v. I.N.S., 237 F.Supp.2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) in support). As such, the Petitioner's evidence 
that he coaches a martial art does not necessarily support a finding of extraordinary ability for his athletic performance in 
that martial art. In addition, as we have explained in our prior decisions, much of the Petitioner's coaching activities 
occurred after the initial filing of the petition and cannot establish eligibility at the time of filing. Although we have 
considered it, for the foregoing reasons, we do not directly address the Petitioner's coaching evidence or find that it 
establishes eligibility under the requested classification. 
3 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 25753547 Date: MAY 17, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a manager in the field ofautomatic transmission remanufacturing, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence ofmeeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he did not establish, as required, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and commercial successes). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers should first "[a]ssess whether 
evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to 
that type of evidence"). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the 
final merits determination, USCIS officers should evaluate all the evidence together when considering 
the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he was required satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles in the field, and performed in a leading or 
critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record, and that this evidence establishes that he qualifies under the high standards of this 
immigrant visa classification. On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director did not follow USCIS 
policy and did not consider the totality of the evidence in the record when conducting his final merits 
analysis. We agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider 
the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the 
petition. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to four of the 
criteria, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did 
not address the evidence relating to the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance and 
2 
whether that evidence shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor. The record also includes multiple 
letters of support from professionals in the Petitioner's field that address the Petitioner's standing in 
the field that were not discussed by the Director. Because the Director did not properly consider all 
of the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS 
officers should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if a petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level 
of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at 
least three criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The 
new decision should include a final merits analysis ofthe totality ofthe record, including the evidence 
submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
addition, the new decision should consider the Petitioner's specific statements explaining how his 
work will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26378313 Date: MAY 18, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner describes himself as a "medical doctor specializ[ing] in lawsuit and health rights," who 
seeks employment as a legal consultant specializing in medical malpractice litigation. He seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The Director 
also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry into the United States will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 3 7 5-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a medical degree in Brazil, and practiced emergency medicine there from 2010 
to 2014. He then worked for "a public company that conducts the entrance medical exams for some 
public jobs in Brazil" from 2014 to 2018. He has also worked for Brazilian comis as a medical advisor 
for various types oflitigation. He established a legal consulting company in 201 7. The Petitioner has 
served on the Conselho Regional de Medicina do Distrito Federal (CRM-DF) (Board of Physicians 
of the Federal District), which has disciplinary authority over physician conduct, and the Associacao 
Brasileira de Medicina Legal e Pericias Medicas do Distrito Federal (ABMLPM-DF) (Federal 
District Board of Forensic Medicine). The Petitioner intends "to study law in the US as soon as 
possible," and to assist lawyers with medical malpractice litigation, while continuing to work remotely 
for employers and organizations in Brazil. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have submitted evidence, or comparable evidence, relating to five of 
the criteria, pertaining to memberships in associations; published material; participation as a judge of 
the work ofothers; original contributions of major significance; and leading or critical roles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's work with CRM-DF satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which entails judging the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
also meets the other four claimed criteria, either directly or through comparable evidence. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion, 
pertaining to judging. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner documented his membership in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF, but has not shown that these 
organizations are associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the president of CRM-DF, who cited article 12 ofFederal Council 
of Medicine Resolution No. 1974/11, which states: "The doctor must not allow his name to be included 
in contests ... to choose the 'doctor ofthe year,' 'outstanding,' 'best doctor,' or other denominations that 
aim at promotional or advertising purposes." The president of CRM-DF stated that, because of this 
regulation, "[i]t is ... forbidden to participate in an association that needs outstanding achievements." 
The Petitioner stated that, because ofthe rnle described above, the regulato1y language does not apply to 
physicians in Brazil, and therefore the Director should accept comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). It is not sufficient for the Petitioner to claim or establish that a particular c1iterion does not 
apply; the Petitioner must also establish that the substitute evidence is "comparable" to the type of 
evidence described in the criterion. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his memberships are 
comparable to the memberships described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Brazilian regulation that created "Regional Councils of Medicine," including CRM-DF, indicates 
that members ''will be chosen by secret ballot" cast by "the physicians regularly registered in each 
Regional Council." This information shows that CRM-DF members are chosen by all participating local 
physicians, rather than by nationally or internationally recognized expe1is. 
Fmihennore, the Petitioner has not established that CRM-DF is an "association in the field." The record 
shows it to be a government-established disciplinary body, whose members have official duties and 
receive "daily allowances" and other "compensation," according to the submitted regulations. The 
Petitioner referred to his position at CRM-DF as a "job"with a "salary." Employment is not the same as 
membership in an association. 
The record contains less information about ABMLPM-DF. A letter from the organization's treasurer 
refers to the entity as "a private association responsible for knowledge of the correct practice of the 
profession." The letter does not explain the criteria that one must meet in order to join the organization. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established membership in qualifying associations. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his election to leadership positions in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF, 
along with his invitation to testify before the Brazilian Senate, demonstrates his recognition in the field. 
Senate testimony, however, does not constitute or reflect membership in an association. Also, leadership 
positions are not, themselves, memberships in associations. A separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), discussed below, pertains to leading or critical roles. 
The Petitioner has not established that his membership in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF is comparable to 
the memberships described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 If this decision had reached a final merits determination, the narrow geographic jurisdiction of the two organizations 
would have come into play. The statute requires recognition at a national or international level. CRM-DF and ABMLPM-
DF, by nature, are district-level organizations with jurisdiction limited to the vicinity ofBrazil's capital cityj I 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title. date. and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner again cited the Federal Council of Medicine resolution quoted above, claiming that it 
prohibits "publication of journalistic material promoting [a] doctor's work." The Petitioner does not 
submit any independent evidence to support this interpretation ofthe regulation. The president ofCRM­
DF stated, "we discourage the publication ofjournalistic material promoting the doctor's work," but the 
cited regulation refers specifically to "promotional or advertising purposes," rather than to journalism, 
and the record does not establish CRM-DF's authority to prevent the publication of news articles (as 
distinct from advertisements) about physicians. 
Initially and again on appeal, the Petitioner has asked the Director to consider, as comparable evidence, 
video footage of his testimony on the website of the Brazilian Senate. The Petitioner did not submit 
documentary evidence to establish that viewership ofsuch testimony on the Senate website is comparable 
to that of major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix, for information 
about the types of evidence that can establish that published material meets the regulatory requirements. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit the required English translation ofthe testimony, or establish 
that his testimony was about him, pertaining to his work in the field. From its suITounding context, it 
appears that the Petitioner's testimony was about the issue of disability benefits for individuals with 
monocular vision. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation showing that Brazil passed legislation designating the loss of 
vision in one eye as a disability for legal purposes. The designation entitles affected persons to certain 
public benefits. The Petitioner had been involved in related litigation and testified to the Brazilian Senate 
in support ofthis legislation. 
In the denial notice, the Director quoted from letters submitted in support of the petition, and concluded 
that, while the Petitioner had made original contributions, he had not shown their major significance. The 
Director did not specifically address the Brazilian legislation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asks: "How is it that the creation of a law, which impacts thousands of lives 
nationwide, does not represent a significant impact in the field?" While the record shows that the 
Petitioner testified in favor ofthe legislation in question, the Petitioner is not a legislator, and he does not 
claim to have drafted the statutory text or to have initiated the efforts to pass the law. Rather, he was one 
ofseveral activists who each contributed in various ways to the passage ofthe statute. 
A translated printout from the Senate's website indicates that the Petitioner was one of 14 people who 
testified at a July 2019 hearing about the proposed legislation. The law was enacted nearly two years 
later, in March 2021. The evidence in the record does not show that the Petitioner is sufficiently 
responsible for the passage ofthe legislation that the law can be considered as his contribution to the field. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion __________ CRM-DF, ____ 
ABMLPM-DF, and his ownership of a consulting organization. The Director requested "[o]bjective, 
documentary evidence to demonstrate the distinguished reputation of the organizations or establishments 
for which the beneficiary perfo1med in leading or critical roles. The evidence should document the 
organizations' or establishments' eminence, distinction, or excellence." 
In response, the Petitioner stated that the organizations all have distinguished reputations because CRM­
DF "is a government agency created by law, responsible for regulating and supervising the correct 
exercise of medicine" and ABMLPM-DF "represents all Forensics doctors in" Brazil's Federal District. 
Regarding his company, the Petitioner stated: "Lawyers from all over Brazil seek our services," and that 
the company's "perfonnance ... was enough to draw the attention ofthe Federal Senate," which invited 
the Petitioner to testify. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that the organizations "possess a level of 
eminence or distinction that sets them apart from the others and the info1mation provided has not 
established that the organizations have a distinguished reputation." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that CRM-DF "is the highest organization to regulate and supervise the 
practice of medicine. We regulate and judge medical malpractice in our state. This is the most elevated 
position for a medical doctor, especially for a forensic doctor. ... There is none higher than that." The 
issue here, however, is not the extent of CRM-DF's local authority, but whether the organization has a 
distinguished reputation. CRM-DF is a district-level disciplinary authority, and the Petitioner did not 
show that it has a distinguished reputation in comparison to over 20 similar bodies with authority over 
other federative units and states in Brazil.2 
The Petitioner has not established that the organizations in which he performed in leading or critical roles 
have distinguished reputations. 
The above conclusions determine the outcome ofthe appeal. Therefore, we reserve the separate issue 
of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
2 As discussed earlier above, the narrow geographic jurisdictions of CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF would have been 
significant factors if this decision had reached a final merits determination. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner's election to leadership positions on local boards does not 
attest to recognition on a national or international scale. The record does not establish sustained 
national or international acclaim as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has had success in the area of malpractice litigation, but 
the record does not offer a sufficient basis to compare the scope and scale ofthe Petitioner's efforts to 
that of others engaged in similar work. With no objective, evidentiary basis for comparison, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has reached the top of his field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 23034491 Date: MAY 22, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification under the first-preference, immigrant visa category as a 
noncitizen of "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This category requires a noncitizen to demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim and to provide extensive documentation of their recognized 
achievements in the claimed field of extraordinary ability. Id. 
After initially granting the Petitioner's filing, the Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the 
petition's approval. The Director concluded that, contrary to the Act, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he: seeks to continue working in the United States as a singer; and has extraordinary 
ability in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director: lacked "good and sufficient 
cause" to revoke the petition's approval; impermissibly relied on evidence ofevents that occurred after 
the petition's approval; and "arbitrarily and capriciously" sought revocation about four years after the 
petition's approval. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofHo, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Director erred in finding insufficient evidence ofthe Petitioner's intent to 
continue his U.S. singing career and did not adequately explain his finding regarding the Petitioner's 
claimed extraordinary ability. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) determines whether the record establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim and achievements demonstrating a noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the 
very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596F.3d1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a 
two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a native and citizen ofUzbekistan, began to receive acclaim as a 
singer in 2004 when, at age 13, he won a Ukrainian singing competition. He won another singing 
contest in Russia in 2005 and released his first album in 2007 and his first music video in 2011. The 
following year, he finished as a finalist in a televised European songwriting competition and, in 2015, 
won a talent show on Russian TV. The Petitioner boasts a 3.5-octave vocal range and describes his 
singing style as "pop opera." 
The Petitioner stated that a U.S. entertainment agent contacted him, telling him that he could make 
him a star in this country. With the agent's support, the Petitioner came to the United States in 2016 
on a nonimmigrant work visa as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. See section 101(a)(l5)(O) of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(O). He filed this immigrant visa petition in October 2017, and, by the 
end of that month, users approved it. But, in October 2021, after a users officer interviewed the 
Petitioner regarding his application for adjustment of status, the Director mailed the Petitioner a notice 
of intent to revoke (NOIR) the filing's grant. 
A. TheNOIR 
"[A ]t any time" before a petitioner obtains lawful permanent residence, USCIS may revoke a petition's 
approval for "good and sufficient cause." Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. Ifsupported by a 
record, a petition's erroneous approval justifies its revocation. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 590. 
Unless circumstances automatically revoke a petition's approval under 8 C.F.R. § 205.l(a)(3)(iii), 
users must notify a petitioner of intended revocation grounds and afford them a reasonable 
opportunity to respond with rebuttal evidence or argument. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b). USCIS properly 
issues a NOIR ifthe unrebutted and unexplained record at the time ofthe NOIR's issuance would have 
warranted the petition's denial. Matter ofEs time, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 451 (BIA 1987). The Agency 
may revoke a petition's approval if a petitioner's NOIR response does not overcome the stated 
revocation grounds. Id. at 451-52 
The Director based the Petitioner's NOIR on the following "issues:" 
• In December 2019, the Petitioner's agent told users that the Petitioner terminated their 
business agreement in early 2018, shortly after the Petitioner "failed" an audition for a singing 
competition on U.S. television. 
2 
• A successful U.S. music producer who invited the Petitioner to his studio told USCIS that he 
decided not to record or produce the Petitioner. He purportedly stated that he did not believe 
the Petitioner's "sound" matched the type of music he produces and that the Petitioner "might 
not be right for the U.S. market." 
• The Petitioner auditioned for the U.S. TV singing competition in 2018, and all three judges 
voted "No." 
• At the Petitioner's adjustment interview in September 2020, he told the USCIS officer that: 
his agreement with his agent ended in November 2017; he had not yet hired another agent; he 
last performed at a private function about nine months earlier; and he had worked as a food 
deliverer. 
In the NOIR, the Director found that the Petitioner meets at least three ofthe 10 preliminary , regulatory 
requirements for extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). But the NOIR asserts that the 
evidentiary issues discussed above do not demonstrate his intent to continue working in the United 
States as a singer or his claimed extraordinary ability in the field. 
B. The Timing of the Revocation 
The Petitioner contends that USCIS' revocation of his petition more than four years after its approval 
is "arbitrary and capricious ." He cites the following legal authority: 
[E]very tribunal, judicial or administrative, has some power to correct its own errors or 
otherwise to modify its judgment, decree, or error. In the administrative context, this 
right is generally limited to "a short period after the making of the decision and before 
an appeal has been taken or other rights vested." 
Gorbach v. Reno, 219 F.3d 1087, 1102 (9th Cir. 2000) (en bane) (Thomas , J., concurring) (citations 
omitted). "What is a short and reasonable period will vary with each case, but, absent unusual 
circumstances , the time period would be measured in weeks, not years." Caba Distrib. Co. v. Brady, 
821 F. Supp. 601 , 613, (N.D. Cal. 1992) (citation omitted). 
The Petitioner also notes that a U.S. district court applied this reasoning , in part, in a case involving a 
petition like his: an immigrant visa petition for a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. Doe I v. US. 
Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. , No. 20-cv-07517-BLF , 2021 WL 3402311 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 4, 2021). In Doe 
I, USCIS revoked the petition's approval more than three years after its grant. Id. , 2021 WL 3402311 
at *1. The court ordered the Department of Homeland Security to complete the proceeding's 
administrative record, finding that "it is reasonable, and non-speculative , for Plaintiffs to believe that 
there are documents in the record that shed light on why Defendants reversed their three-year-old 
decision on Doe 1's 1-140 Petition." Id. at *3. 
As the record indicates the Petitioner 's residence in New York, the Ninth Circuit cases that he cites do 
not bind us in this matter. Also, in another case, the Ninth Circuit suggested that section 205 of the 
Act does not limit the time within which USCIS may revoke a petition's approval. "The statute permits 
revocation 'at any time,' so there plainly was no time constraint on when the agency could revoke the 
approval." Herrera v. USCIS, 571 F.3d 881 , 886 (9th Cir. 2009) (affirming revocation ofan immigrant 
visa petition more than two years after its approval) . 
3 
Like the Ninth Circuit, the U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals for the Second Circuit, which has jurisdiction 
over New York, has ruled that a federal agency generally can reconsider a decision "only if it does so 
within a reasonable time period." Dun & Bradstreet Corp. Found. v. US. Postal Serv., 946 F.2d 189, 
193 (2d Cir. 1991) ( citation omitted) ( considering a dispute over a request for a postage refund). But 
we found no cases of revocations under section 205 of the Act, like the Petitioner's case, where the 
Second Circuit followed that reasoning. See Mantena v. Johnson, 809 F.3d 721 (2d Cir. 2015) 
(reviewing the revocation of an immigrant visa petition that occurred about six years after the filing's 
grant). 
Thus, in the absence ofcontrolling case law, we interpret the plain language of section 205 of the Act 
to allow USCIS to revoke an immigrant visa petition's approval "at any time" before a beneficiary 
obtains lawful permanent residence. The Petitioner's contrary argument is unavailing. 
C. Intent to Continue Working in the United States 
The evidentiary issues cited in the Director's NOIR do not support the finding that the Petitioner no 
longer intends to continue his U.S. singing career. 
In determining what is "good and sufficient cause" for the issuance of a notice of 
intention to revoke, we ask whether the evidence of record at the time the notice was 
issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would have warranted a denial based on the 
petitioner's failure to meet his or her burden of proof 
Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. 
As the Petitioner argues, the Director did not consider the Petitioner's work as a food deliverer in the 
proper context. The Petitioner's statement at the 2020 adjustment interview suggests that he worked 
as food deliverer that year, the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic when few live-music 
performances occurred in the United States. See, e.g., August Brown, "The year the music died," Los 
Angeles Times, Dec. 11, 2020, www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2020-12-l l/music­
covid-pandemic-nightclubs-2020 ( estimating that the COVID pandemic cost the U.S. music industry 
$9 billion in 2020). Thus, under the unusual circumstances ofa pandemic, the Petitioner's nine-month 
period without a performance and employment as a food deliverer in 2020 does not sufficiently 
indicate a lack of intent to continue his U.S. singing career after pandemic restrictions. Moreover, a 
beneficiary need not begin working pursuant to their approved immigrant visa petition until they 
obtain lawful permanent residence. Matter ofRajah, 25 I&N Dec. 127, 132-33 (BIA 2009) (citations 
omitted). 
Also, evidence of a noncitizen's intent to work in the United States in their field of extraordinary 
ability may include "a statement from the beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to 
continue his or her work in the United States." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Although disregarded by the 
Director, the Petitioner provided a November 2020 letter detailing his intent to continue working as a 
singer in the United States. The letter states that he terminated his former agent because the agent 
tried to make him sign what the Petitioner believes was an unfair contract that would have required 
him to work with the agent for nine years. He said his termination of their representation agreement 
angered the agent, who reportedly yelled at him: "Without me, you are nobody, and you will be nobody 
4 
here!" The Petitioner said the break with his agent shook his confidence. But he said he eventually 
recovered and "still believes there is great opportunity for [him] in the music business." 
The Director also disregarded other evidence of the Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S singing 
career. The Petitioner submitted a 2022 letter from his former agent, in which the agent conceded that 
he primarily booked the Petitioner for performances in Florida, which was "too small a market for 
him." The agent also stated that the music producer offered the Petitioner a recording deal but that 
the Petitioner -not the producer -declined the deal because he did not like the producer's focus on 
"pop" music. The agent also said that he told a users officer that "musicians like [the Petitioner] are 
only born once in a generation and he can bring an instrumental change to the music industry 
worldwide." He described the Petitioner as "a musician of global standard, he makes people happy, 
and he makes people smile by taking their breath away with his talents." 
Further, the Director did not address: an October 2020 letter from a Russian singer, stating her 
intention to collaborate with the Petitioner on a musical featuring the works of the classical composer 
Rachmaninoff; a November 2020 letter from another U.S. music producer, stating his plans to work 
with the Petitioner on an English-language album for the U.S. market; and an October 2020 contract 
for the Petitioner's performances at a restaurant three days a week over a 12-month 
period. Thus, the Director disregarded evidence that the Petitioner continued seeking to work as a 
singer in the United States. 
For the foregoing reasons, the record does not support the revocation of the petition's approval based 
on insufficient evidence ofthe Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S. singing career. We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Extraordinary Ability 
An NOIR "must include a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, but 
also of the supporting evidence." Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452. users must also provide a 
petitioner with a written decision "that explains the specific reasons for the revocation." 8 e.F.R. 
§ 205 .2( c ). A conclusory statement supports neither a NOIR' s issuance nor revocation of a petition's 
approval. Matter ofArias, 19 I&N Dec. 568, 570 (BIA 1988). 
The Director found that the Petitioner "is not one of that small percentage who have risen to the top 
of the field of endeavor." But the decision does not explain how the evidentiary issues cited in the 
NOIR support that determination. The decision also does not explain why the petition's supporting 
evidence did not demonstrate the Petitioner's extraordinary ability as a singer. 
As the record does not sufficiently explain the Director's finding regarding the Petitioner's claimed 
extraordinary ability, we will remand the matter. On remand, the Director should reconsider the 
Petitioner's qualifications for the requested immigrant visa category. Ifthe Director believes that the 
Petitioner has not established his claimed extraordinary ability, the Director should issue a new NOIR 
explaining the evidentiary deficiency and allowing the Petitioner an opportunity to respond. 
Ifsupported by the record, a new NOIR may include any additional potential revocation grounds. The 
Director, however, must afford the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to respond to all issues raised 
5 
on remand. Upon receipt of a timely response, the Director should review the entire record and issue 
a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record includes sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S. singing career. 
If the Director believes the Petitioner has not demonstrated extraordinary ability as a singer, the 
Director must notify him, explain why, and afford him an opportunity to respond. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 31, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) In Re: 26712901 
The Petitioner, an inventor of the.____________ __,technology in the micro-irrigation 
field, 1 seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a brief and documentation regarding the translation company 
responsible for the translation of documents in the record. As a preliminary matter, the Director did 
not consider several documents in the record since they were not accompanied by a full English 
language translation certified by the translator that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). As the Petitioner notes on appeal, he submitted with the initial 
petition documents about the translator to include a diploma from the University ofl 
awarding I I a Master of Translation and Interpreting, and a certificate from the National 
Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters awarded to I las a certified translator 
from Chinese to English. However,! ldid not indicate which documents he translated and did 
not certify each translation. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a document listing the translated 
1 The Petitioner indicated three other occupations in the record to include student, professor and chief executive officer. 
After the second request for evidence whereby the Director asked for clarification on his job occupation , the Petitioner 
stated he was an inventor. I 
evidence and indicated .___________________ __, performed the translating 
services. This information appears to differ from the translator mention previously. In addition, the 
documents on appeal were not signed by the translating company and the translations were not 
properly certified. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). The Director thoroughly analyzed the Petitioner's 
evidence and arguments and provided him with a compete decision reaching the correct conclusion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief referencing the same arguments and evidence previously 
submitted. On appeal, the Petitioner explains the technology behind the trace irrigation. Although the 
Petitioner quickly touches on a few issues discussed in the Director's decision, he does not provide 
sufficient evidence to overcome the Director's concerns. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 28424522 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner states she will continue to work in the United States as an artist-in-residence in her own 
studio and art gallery. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the 
record demonstrates that she only meets one of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), of which he must meet at least three. Specifically, the Director held that she met the criteria for 
the display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in finding that she is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability, and that the Director omitted several documents in support of her extraordinary 
ability such as an expert opinion letter. In addition, the Petitioner maintains that she met the 
evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon which the Director issued an adverse 
determination and provides additional information. 
Upon review, we find that the Director's decision reflects a careful and thorough review and analysis 
of the Petitioner's claims and supporting evidence including the expert opinion letter. Therefore, we 
adopt and affirm the Director's decision with the added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 
I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting 
that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every 
other circuit that has squarely confronted this issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining 
eight U.S. Court of Appeals in holding the appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision 
below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
A. Major International Award 
The Director determined that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner earned a one-time 
achievement ofa major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner 
2 
does not contest this determination on appeal and therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived 
appeal on this issue. 1 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In support ofher claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner provides information 
regarding the art events including the number of exhibits and artists present, and the exhibition judge. 
However, this new information does not show that the Petitioner's awards commanded a level of 
recognition beyond the events where they were presented. For example, there is no evidence showing 
that the Petitioner's awards were announced in major media or in some other manner consistent with 
national or international acclaim. 
Without more, the Petitioner has not established that any of the awards she received are nationally or 
internationally recognized as prizes or awards of excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides copies of emails and membership cards to establish that she is a 
member of several associations. However, the evidence does not demonstrate that the associations 
require outstanding achievements of their members, and that membership eligibility is judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their field. 
Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional information regarding some of the articles submitted 
including the title, date, and author, as well as the circulation figures. However, the Petitioner does 
not demonstrate the significance of these circulation figures or establish that such data reflects status 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 2 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision. that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. At(v Gen., 401 F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See 6 USCJ S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner does not provide any new evidence or arguments which overcome the Director's 
determination. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner does not provide any new evidence or arguments which overcome the Director's 
determination. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this determination on appeal and 
therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on this issue. 3 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that in Canada, she "commanded high managerial salaries from Art 
Director to senior Creative Pre-planner positions" and she provides copies of her 2004 executive 
employment contract and Canada pension plan contributions. However, the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to show that her salary or remuneration was high relative to the compensation paid to others 
working in the field. 
Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner did not establish she commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in the same position. Therefore, the Petitioner does not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner is a talented artist, she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either 
a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
3 See Matter ofR-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012). 
4 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her artwork is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 01, 2023 In Re: 28561101 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professional soccer player who has approximately 20 years of coaching 
experience in the sport. He indicates that he intends to continue working as a soccer coach in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement; therefore, he must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy 
five of the ten criteria, summarized below. 1 
• Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• Published materials in major media or other qualifying publications; 
• Participating as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field; 
• Leading/critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• High salary or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide evidence satisfying any of the claimed 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence is sufficient to 
satisfy all five criteria. 
The Petitioner farther contends that the Director erred by observing that competitive athletics and 
coaching "rely on different sets of skills and in general are not in the same area of expertise." The 
Petitioner cites a non-precedent AAO decision in support of his claim that it is possible for an 
individual's area of extraordinary ability or expertise to encompass both athletic competition and 
coaching other athletes, provided that the totality of the evidence establishes sustained acclaim and 
extraordinary ability in coaching. In cases involving athletic coaches who are former competitive 
athletes, we generally make such a determination on a case-by-case basis based on the facts presented. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he could satisfy a sixth criterion, relating to his receipt of 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). An issue 
not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A­
M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
The Petitioner, despite indicating that he played professional soccer for 15 years and enjoyed sustained 
acclaim as soccer player, submitted little evidence related to his playing career and did not seek to 
meet any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) based on his activities or achievements as a 
professional athlete. Therefore, the Director's decision was reasonably based on the Petitioner's 
documented accomplishments as a soccer coach. 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his receipt of a "Class B" license 
certificate from thel l(CBF).2 The evidence shows that he received 
this license after completing a 200-hour course with the CBF Academy in February 2019. Supporting 
documentation describing the CBF Academy's programs indicates that the specific Class B licensing 
course the Petitioner completed was designed "for professionals who work or want to work in football 
as coaches in ... youth teams." A photocopy of the Petitioner's CBF license indicates he is registered 
as a "B -Youth Football Coach." 
The record includes information from the CBF Academy website identifying prereqms1tes for 
registration in its Class B licensing programs, as well as a declaration from the academy director listing 
the theoretical and practical classes the Petitioner completed. The listed prerequisites include: (1) 
completion of a C License; (2) proven experience of at least seven full seasons as a professional 
football athlete; or (3) proven experience of at least five seasons as head coach of Base Category 
teams. These prerequisites appear to apply to those seeking a "License B -Football Coach" 
qualification; it is unclear based on the evidence provided that the same requirements apply to those 
seeking the "Youth Football Coach" license. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not demonstrate that the CBF "conferred membership" 
to the Petitioner, but rather reflects that he "took several training courses" required to obtain a license 
as a soccer coach. The Director also concluded the Petitioner did not show that CBF requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, as an essential 
condition for licensure. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "CBF's requirements are indicative ofoutstanding achievements, 
thus rendering the underlying denial erroneous." Specifically, he states that he completed a "rigorous 
program that covered a wide range oftopics" and emphasizes that the "CBF Academy is an institution 
that is focused on excellence." He summarizes the previously submitted evidence, notes that CBF 
2 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in the Union of Professional 
Coaches of the State ofl Ibut did not pursue this claim when responding to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) or in his brief on appeal. Nevertheless, we note that he did not submit any supporting evidence ofthis organization's 
membership requirements and therefore did not establish that he qualifies under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on this 
membership. 
3 
places a strong emphasis on the development and training of coaches, and stresses that he "met all of 
the prerequisites and passed all necessary assessments to become a licensed coach under the B License 
category." 
We do not question the value of the licensing programs offered by the CBF Academy or that 
institution's commitment to excellence in the sport. However, the prestige or reputation of a given 
association or organization is not determinative; the issue here is the association's membership 
requirements rather than its overall reputation. Here, we agree with the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner did not provide evidence that his attainment of the Class B youth coaching license 
satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record does not contain evidence that CBF is an association that limits membership to prospective 
members whose achievements have been judged as outstanding by recognized national or international 
experts in the sport. Rather, it indicates that CBF issues coaching licenses to those who have enrolled 
in and completed licensing programs offered by the CBF Academy. Enrolled students must attend all 
classes and achieve a 70% minimum average on assessments throughout the course to successfully 
complete it. The Petitioner emphasized that the course instructors are experts in the field but did not 
articulate how the instructors' assignment of passing marks amounts to a determination that a 
prospective license holder has outstanding achievements in the sport. The record lacks evidence that 
any further review is undertaken by CBF once an individual completes all course requirements and 
therefore does not otherwise establish that "membership" is based on an assessment that a prospective 
license-holder has outstanding achievements as a coach. 
We acknowledge evidence that certain CBF Academy courses have prerequisites for registration and 
those prerequisites include evidence that a person has a certain number ofyears of coaching or playing 
experience. However, the Petitioner did not show that these prerequisites amount to a requirement 
that a prospective license holder have "outstanding achievements" in the field or that a person's 
qualifications are reviewed by recognized national or international experts before they are permitted 
to enroll in CBF Academy coaching programs. 
For the reasons provided, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, or for a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
Evidence of experience should consist of letters from employers and should contained detailed 
information specifically addressing how the person's role was leading or critical. "Distinguished" 
means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence."3 A determination regarding whether an 
organization or establishment ( or a department or division thereof) has a distinguished reputation is 
based on factors that may include, but are not limited to, evidence of relevant media coverage, 
4 3 See Merriam-Webster Dictiona1y definition of ·'distinguished," https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ 
distinguished. 
rankings, or other recognitions received by the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual ( discussing the evaluation ofevidence 
submitted to satisfy the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
In support ofthis criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted letters from representatives ofi ID Football Club I IFC), Football I !Football Association I l andl ISoccer Club. Although the letters briefly confirmed the Petitioner's 
employment4 with these organizations, they did not articulate the nature of his duties or contributions, 
or otherwise establish how his role was leading or critical for the organization, or a division or 
department of the organization. 
The Petitioner also submitted several recommendation letters from soccer coaches and former 
professional players who have worked with him, accompanied by evidence related to the authors' 
individual achievements as athletes and coaches in the sport. While the authors ofthese letters praised 
the Petitioner's talent, commitment and abilities as a soccer coach and discussed aspects of his 
coaching career, they did not address the elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted letters did not provide specific 
information necessary to establish that his role was leading or critical, by establishing that he 
contributed in a way that was significantly important to the outcome of an organization or 
establishment's activities. The Director also noted that the initial evidence did not include 
documentary evidence to demonstrate that he has worked for an organization or establishment that has 
a distinguished reputation. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and indicated that he meets this criterion 
based on his leading roles wit~ IFC, Football! IHe provided a new 
letter from the City Football Schools Coordinator of the I IFC, who stated that the 
Petitioner "was hired as a Coach to perform training sessions with our team and students that attend 
our prestigious school." He noted that the Petitioner's contribution was "of crucial importance and 
without his presence our organization would not have the current success that we do," emphasizing 
that the professional team, in 2022, "won the A-League premiership and came in second in the entire 
Championship." The Petitioner also submitted information from Wikipedia regarding! I 
FC, which discusses the history and achievements of the club. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes his "role as a head coach for I I Football Club," 
noting that the team plays in the top level within the Australian Professional Leagues. However, the 
evidence indicates that, in March 2022, the Petitioner accepted a "casual employment position" with 
I I FC to be a coach within 'l I Sporting Schools," where he would be 
responsible for providing "a safe, inclusive and fan experience for the children." His employment 
offer indicated he may perform additional coaching roles by participating in coaching clinics and as 
part of the organization's City Club program, working with local clubs. 
4 The author of the letter froml IFC, indicated that he "interviewed [the Petitioner] for a coaching position in 
our program," and did not expressly state that he was ultimately hired or what position he held. However, the initial 
evidence also included an offer of "casual employment" from this organization, signed by the Petitioner in March 2022. 
5 Wikipedia is an online, open-content collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_disclaimer. 
5 
Therefore, although the Petitioner appears to claim on appeal that he served as head coach of the 
professional team that achieved a high level of success in Australia's top league in 2022, that claim is 
uncorroborated in the record. The Petitioner established that he was hired, on a casual "per session" 
basis, to provide coaching services to other departments or divisions within thel I FC 
organization, including departments focused on programs for children and community programs 
designed to increase the visibility of the organization. The Petitioner did not meet his burden to 
establish that he served in a leading or critical role for the overall organization or that he held a leading 
or critical role within a department or division of the organization. Moreover, the record does not 
contain sufficient, objective evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of I I 
Sporting Schools or any otherl IFC division or department that may have used the 
Petitioner's services under the terms of the casual employment agreement. 
The Petitioner's resRonse to the RFE also included an updated letter from the SAP development ~ at Football I I who stated that the Petitioner had been coaching within the Football 
L___J SAP program in Australia since February 2022, working with players between the ages of 9 
and 12. The author explained that Football I I is "the organization responsible for the 
professional! Ifootball teams" and "it is of key importance that players who intend on having a 
professional career in football have training from an early age." He farther stated that the Petitioner 
"has been a key factor in making our players succeed." 
The Petitioner submitted the Wikipedia entry for Football! Iwhich describes the organization 
as "the state governing body for soccer inl !Australia" and notes its affiliation with Football 
Australia. However, he did not provide any other evidence in support ofhis claim that the organization 
enjoys a distinguished reputation. The information from Wikipedia, even if its validity could be 
guaranteed, is limited and only briefly describes the history and formation of F ootballl Iand the 
pyramid of soccer leagues operating in the state. 
Further, the letter from the organization indicates that the Petitioner's role was limited to working with 
children in the SAP program and does not support a determination that he held a leading or critical 
role within the broader organization. The record does not contain evidence relating to the SAP 
program or its distinguished reputation and does not sufficiently establish how the Petitioner's several 
months of coaching experience within this program was significantly important to the outcome of this 
program, department, or division. The organization's broad claim that he "has been a key factor in 
making our players succeed," is insufficient to demonstrate how the Petitioner's role with this 
organization satisfied the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that he "was instrumental in re aring the next generation of soccer players and 
ensuring the continued success of soccer in .......,.__.........,and therefore "had a direct impact on the 
reputation, revenue and performance of Football as an organization." However, these claims 
are not substantiated by the letter from Football~_~or other evidence in the record. 
Finally, the RFE response included a letter from the general manager of the I I who stated that the 
Petitioner had served "as a coaching director for the Association as a whole," responsible for preparing 
and administering coaching courses "to improve the abilities ofboth our players and coaches within our 
league." She farther states that the Petitioner's work is "crucial to the success of our teams," that his 
"high level performance has led many of our teams to victory in past tournaments" and that "his role in 
our organization has been of high value." The Petitioner also submitted a document titled 'l I 
6 
History" but did not identify the source of the information contained therein. While the letter from the 
organization suggests that the Petitioner's coaching director position with I Imay be a leading or 
critical role, the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that this organization, described on appeal 
as a "volunteer-run, Christian-based soccer club" enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided a copy of his contract with. ____~------' 
which describes his remuneration package as of his date of hire in March 2022. This evidence 
indicates that he received an annual wage of$70,920 and total remuneration of $96,017 as a foll-time 
senior soccer coach. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included information from Payscale.com indicating that in 2022, the 
average annual base salary for a head football coach was A$47,500, with the top 25% of earners 
receiving a salary of A$63, 000 or higher. The Petitioner submitted additional comparative salary data 
in response to the RFE which included: (1) data on employee earnings from the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics (ABS) indicating that workers in "Education and Training" occupations earned median 
wages of approximately A$1300 per week ($67,600 annually) in 2022; (2) information regarding 
coach salaries in Australia from Talent.com, which indicates an average or median annual salary of 
A$78,020 with "most experienced workers" earning over $122,000; and (3) 2021 wage data for 
"coaches and scouts" from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion; however, as noted by the 
Petitioner on appeal, the decision did not discuss all evidence submitted in response to the RFE. 
Specifically, the Director's discussion of comparative wage data for Australia was limited to a 
reference to the information from Payscale. The Director observed that the salary information from 
this source "is limited to those who reported their salaries to the website, and the petitioner cannot 
confirm the accuracy of the self-reported information." The Petitioner maintains that USCIS policy 
guidance specifically allows for the submission of compensation surveys such as those published by 
Payscale.com. We agree with the Petitioner that position-appropriate compensation surveys may be 
considered in evaluating whether an individual meets this criterion. However, some websites that rely 
on user-reported salary data may not provide a valid comparison i±: for example, too few users reported 
their salaries, which may impact the reliability of the data. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
To support his claim that he earned a high salary in relation to other coaches in Australia, the Petitioner 
submitted data from Payscale.com that was based on 11 reported salaries and data from Talent.com 
that was based on 846 salaries. Based on the relative sample sizes, it is reasonable to determine that 
the Talent.com survey is the more reliable survey for purposes of comparison. We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's base salary ofA$70,970 and total remuneration ofA$96,0l 7 fall above the 75th percentile 
for base salary and "total pay" reported by Payscale.com. However, the average annual salary reported 
by Talent.com is A$78,020, which is higher than the Petitioner's base annual wage. While the 
7 
Petitioner's total remuneration is higher than this average salary, the survey does not provide data for 
the total remuneration of coaches in Australia and therefore cannot support a finding that the 
Petitioner's remuneration is "significantly high" in relation to others. Further, we note that the 
Talent.com survey indicates that the highest earners in the occupation are paid salaries up to 
A$122,194. Therefore, the data from Talent.com does not support the Petitioner's claim that he earns 
a high salary in relation to others working in Australia. 
We have also considered the salary data for "education and training" occupations published by ABS. 
While we do not doubt the reliability of this government-provided data, it is not specific to the 
Petitioner's industry or occupation. Data that includes multiple occupations or multiple industries 
may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). Further, the information from ABS indicates that the median annual wage for 
persons employed in "education and training positions" in Australia is A$67,600. While the 
Petitioner's base salary is slightly higher than this reported median wage, the Petitioner must show 
that he earns a "high salary" or "other significantly high remuneration," rather than an "above average" 
salary. Further, he cannot meet this criterion by comparing his total remuneration package to surveys 
or other data that only report on base salaries. Therefore, the salary information provided by ABS 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of BLS salary data for coaches, we evaluate 
persons working outside the United States based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence 
relevant to their work location, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then 
viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. The Petitioner has not 
claimed that he has commanded a high salary for a U.S.-based position and therefore the BLS data is 
not relevant to our evaluation of this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration based on his employment in Australia. We 
acknowledge that the Petitioner initially provided evidence of his salary as a coach in Thailand and 
Malaysia, where he worked between 2003 and 2010. However, the Petitioner submitted no 
comparative salary data for coaching occupations in Thailand. While he provided average salary data 
for coaches in Malaysia from Indeed.com, the data was from 2022 and was based on a small sample 
of only eight reported salaries. In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he 
earned a high salary in Malaysia but explained that the submitted information from Indeed.com was 
insufficient. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include additional evidence in support of 
his claim that he commanded a high salary while employed in Malaysia, and we agree with the 
Director's determination that the initial evidence was insufficient to meet his burden. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the three evidentiary criteria discussed above. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
8 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these remaining 
claimed criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 29156650 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mental health nurse practitioner, seeks classification under the employment-based, 
first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . To 
establish eligibility for U.S. permanent residence in this category, petitioners must demonstrate 
"sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" recognizing their 
achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not meet preliminary evidentiary requirements for the requested immigrant visa 
category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director undervalued evidence. He also submits 
new documentation and asserts his satisfaction of evidentiary criteria not previously raised before the 
Director. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has not satisfied the preliminary evidentiary requirements . We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing a noncitizen among 
the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Filipino native and Canadian citizen, has a doctoral degree in 
clinical psychology, master's degrees in nursing and community health, and more than 14 years of 
clinical nursing experience. He works as a mental health nurse practitioner for U.S. healthcare 
facilities, providing autism care to medically underserved and uninsured communities. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international 
award. He must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to meet three requirements. But the Director found insufficient 
evidence that he: 
• received lesser prizes or awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• was a member of associations requiring outstanding achievements under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii); or 
• made original contributions of major significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's findings regarding his receipt of lesser prizes or 
awards, and his membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements. 
A. Lesser Prizes or A wards 
This standard requires "[ d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). USCIS 
first confirms that a petitioner -as opposed, for instance, to their employer -received the awards. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Agency then 
considers whether the prizes are in the petitioner's field and nationally or internationally recognized. 
Id. Other relevant considerations include: the awards' national or international significance; the 
number of recipients; and limitations on competitors. Id. 
1 Tfthe ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
To meet this requirement, the Petitioner submitted proof ofhis national nurse practitioner certifications 
in the fields offamily medicine and psychiatry-mental health from the American Nurses Credentialing 
Center (ANCC) and his family nurse practitioner certification from The American Academy of Nurse 
Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB). On appeal, he contends that the Director disregarded 
the certifications' significance, which he states represent "the pinnacle ofprofessional achievement in 
nursing." 
As the Director found, however, the record does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of these 
certifications for "excellence" in the field. Rather, documentation from the issuing organizations' 
websites indicate that the certifications reflect only basic nursing competency. The ANCC website 
states that the certifications received by the Petitioner are "competency-based examination[ s] that 
provide[] valid and reliable assessment[ s] of the entry-level clinical knowledge and skills" needed in 
the fields. ANCC, "Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certification," 
www .nursingworld.org/ our-certifications/psychiatric-mental-health-nurse-practitioner/; "Family 
Nurse Practitioner Certification,'' www.nursingworld.org/our-certifications/family-nurse-practitioner/ 
(emphasis added). Similarly, the AANPCB website describes the organization's family nurse 
practitioner certification as "an entry-level competency-based examination that tests clinical 
knowledge in family/individual across the life span." AANPCB, "Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP)," 
www.aanpcert.org/certs/fnp ( emphasis added). Thus, the record indicates the Petitioner's receipt of 
the certifications for basic nursing competence, not for excellence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding regarding this 
evidentiary requirement. 
B. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievements 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for 
which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). A petitioner must show that, to obtain membership in an association, recognized 
national or international experts judged the noncitizen as having attained outstanding achievements in 
the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ). Thus, under this criterion, memberships 
based on educational level, years of experience, fee payments, or employment in certain occupations 
do not qualify. Id. 
In claiming satisfaction of this standard, the Petitioner submitted copies of his nurse practitioner and 
registered nursing certificates from the California and Arizona boards of registered nursing. 2 As the 
Director found, however, the record does not identify the boards as associations with members or as 
the issuers of certificates based on experts' judgments of outstanding achievements in the nursing 
field. Rather, the record indicates that all nurse practitioners and registered nurses in California and 
Arizona must obtain the certificates to legally practice in the states. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 32-1601 (23); 
2 According to the American Nurses Association (ANA), nurse practitioners not only require Ii censure as registered nurses, 
they must also have master's degrees or doctorates in nursing and often national certification. ANA, "Three Types of 
Nurses and What They Do," www.nursingworld.org/practice-policy/workforce/what-is-nursing/types-of-nurses/. Nurse 
practitioners can also prescribe certain medications and, in some states, operate their own practices. Id. 
3 
Cal. Bus. & Prof Code§ 2835.5. Thus, nurses can obtain the certificates even ifthey lack outstanding 
achievements in their field. Also, the Petitioner has not established that the certificates grant him 
membership on the state boards or in nursing associations, or that the boards consist of recognized 
national or international nursing experts who judged him to have attained outstanding nursing 
achievements. See Goncharov v. Allen, Civil Action No. 3:21-CV-1372-B, 2022 WL 17327304, *5 
(N.D. Tex. Nov. 29, 2022) (holding that "[n]o reasonable analysis could conclude" that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) is satisfied without evidence of "associations which grant memberships"). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his membership in associations requiring outstanding nursing 
achievements as judged by experts in the field. We will therefore also affirm the Director's finding 
regarding this evidentiary requirement. 
C. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
Under this requirement, petitioners must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy ofa research paper that he wrote as a doctoral project, focusing on treating 
patients with borderline personality disorder. The Director found insufficient evidence that the paper had 
major significance in the nursing field by, for example, provoking widespread commentary or receiving 
more citations in relation to others' work in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's finding. Thus, he has eflectively waived 
review of this issue, and the Director's finding of insufficient evidence stands. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A­
S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); see also Rizk v. Holder, 629 F.3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 
2011) ( deeming issues omitted from a brief to be waived). 
The Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal, contending that he meets additional evidentiary 
requirements that he did not raise before the Director in either the initial filing or in response to the 
Director's request for additional evidence (RFE). But, as the record shows his receipt of notice and an 
opportunity to submit the claims and evidence in response to the RFE, we decline to consider the new 
materials and issues on appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the preliminary evidentiary requirements for the 
requested immigrant visa category. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet the evidentiary requirements, we -like the Director -will not perform 
a final merits analysis. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not 
make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an 
applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested benefit). 
The Petitioner seeks classification in a highly restrictive immigrant visa category intended for 
noncitizens at the very top of their respective fields. He has not sufficiently demonstrated his receipt 
4 
of national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the nursing field. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 1, 2023 In Re: 28821261 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a supplemental horse trainer, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary 's receipt or a major, internationally recognized award or satisfaction of at 
least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) also allows 
a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, although the Petitioner 
claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for four categories of evidence, the Director concluded the 
Petitioner only demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for one criterion, leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), in which she must meet at least three. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner 
argues that the Director did not consider its request to consider comparable evidence under the claimed 
criteria. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(4) provides that "[i]f the above standards do not apply to the 
beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's 
eligibility." USCIS determines if the evidence submitted is comparable to the evidence required in 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 This regulatory provision provides petitioners the opportunity to submit 
comparable evidence to establish the person's eligibility, ifit is determined that the evidentiary criteria 
described in the regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. When evaluating such 
comparable evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to 
the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria 
listed in that regulation. A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not 
readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative. Similarly, general claims that USCIS 
should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. However, a statement from 
the petitioner can be sufficient to establish whether a criterion is readily applicable if that statement is 
detailed, specific, and credible. Although officers do not consider comparable evidence where a 
particular criterion is readily applicable to the person's occupation, a criterion need not be entirely 
inapplicable to the person's occupation. Rather, the officer considers comparable evidence if the 
petitioner shows that a criterion is not easily applicable to the person's job or profession. 3 
1 The Petitioner also claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
2 
We agree with the Petitioner. At both initial filing and in response to the Director's request for 
evidence, the Petitioner made arguments for the Beneficiary's eligibility under the claimed criteria 
based on comparable evidence. However, the Director's decision does not reflect the Director 
considered the Petitioner's comparable evidence arguments or explained why comparable evidence 
claims could not be evaluated. 4 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to determine whether the Petitioner first 
established that any of the claimed criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. If so, 
then the Director must determine whether the evidence is truly comparable to the claim criteria. 
Furthermore, if the Director concludes that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the categories, then 
the Director must evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 
See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 There is no comparable evidence for the one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 02, 2023 In Re: 28694367 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 1 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 Appeals filed by representatives must contain a new, properly executed Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as 
Attorney or Accredited Representative. 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a). At the time of filing the appeal, the Petitioner provided a 
copy of a prior Form G-28 for! Ipre-dating the appeal. We sent a notice advising the Petitioner that since 
the appeal did not contain a new Form G-28, we must treat the appeal as self-represented . The record does not contain a 
response from the Petitioner to our notice. Because this appeal does not contain a new Form G-28, we consider it to be 
self-represented . 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found in his decision that the Petitioner did not 
meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets seven of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that he does not meet the requisite three criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested classification. 
In addition to his brief and evidence previously submitted into the record, the Petitioner also submits 
new evidence in support of his claimed criteria. Further, the Petitioner makes an additional eligibility 
claim that was never argued or presented before the Director in this proceeding. Specifically, for the 
first time on appeal, the Petitioner contends that he fulfills the criterion relating to high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).3 Accordingly, we will not consider new eligibility claims or evidence in 
2 The Director indicated in his request for evidence that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vii), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, but did not mention this criterion 
in his decision. 
3 Prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner provided copies of invoices and proposals for murals he painted for a 
member ofthe Qatari royal family, as evidence of the acclaim his work has received for having been "exhibited throughout 
2 
our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.4 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on the following: 
• 5th prize, Award (Drawing, Calligraphy, Printmaking category)-12th 
(2019); 
• 2nd place -I IFoundation,~! -~!Horse Painting Competitio n,~!-~ 
International Arabian Horse Festival (2022); 
• 3rd place -._________ __.Foundation,! IPainting Competition,~!-~ 
F es ti val (2017) 5 
As noted, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on his 5th prize, '.__ ____ ~_ ____. Award at the 
12th I I held in 2019. However, the record lacks sufficient objective evidence 
regarding the I IA ward to establish that it is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the visual arts. A letter from the exhibition's director 
indicates the exhibition is sponsored by the Italian Ministry of Culture and is "the major contemporary 
art and design exhibition inl I' and "an outstanding showcase ofthe international contemporary 
art and design production." The letter provides that the Petitioner was awarded the prize for his I I art project. 
Additional information from the 2019 ~-----~ website provides the exhibition has "over 
500 artists from more than 70 countries," but does not indicate the criteria used to grant the prizes or 
awards or the number of awardees or prize recipients. Further, the only background information 
the world" and in "numerous private collections." However, he did not previously articulate a claim that he can satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary, or other 
significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the same field. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
5 The Petitioner does not ursue his revious claim that his recei t of 3rd lace at I II 0 (2017) 
2nd lace at the and 2nd place at the ~I----~I ~-------~(2015) are qualifying awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
provided was about the exhibition (not the award), was sourced from the organizer, and does not 
establish that the winners receive recognition that extends beyond the awarding organization. It is the 
recognition that the award receives in the field on a broader level, beyond the issuing organization or 
event, that determines whether it satisfies that element of this criterion. For the above reasons, the 
submitted documentation does not establish that the~-------~Award in this exhibition is 
a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
Regarding the awards the Petitioner received from the I I Foundation, he 
provided an article dated 2018 from Cnn.com about thel Icomplex of"galleries, 
theaters and concert halls which hosts a year-round program of exhibitions, performances, and 
festivals." He did not provide any documentary evidence related to the exhibitions or competitions at 
which he received these awards in support ofhis claim that the awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized. The Director concluded, and we agree, that simply providing evidence of his receipt of 
an award certificate is insufficient to demonstrate the award's national or international recognition for 
excellence in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a certificate of appreciation for his "valuable contribution" to Qatar 
Sustainability Week 2021, and certificates of participation in the Qatar Fine Arts Association 
"Realistic Art Workshop and Competition" held in 2018 and "the drawing activities" ofNational Day 
201 7. The evidence does not establish, however, that a certificate of appreciation or participation is 
an "award or prize for excellence" in the field. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that his prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Accordingly, we conclude that he did not 
demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 6 The 
Petitioner claimed that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the Qatar Fine Arts 
Association (QF AA). As explained below, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
has not shown that the association has sufficiently restrictive membership requirements. 
In support ofhis claim that membership in QF AA satisfies the regulatory requirements ofthis criterion, 
the Petitioner provided a letter from QFAA chairman Y-K-A-S- that states that the Petitioner "has 
been exhibited in QFAA since 2015." He explains that "only Qatari artists are official members" and 
the Petitioner, as a non-Qatari artist, "is an honorary member entitled to participate in annual art 
activities of the QF AA." He provides that the basis for membership in the QF AA is "creative activity 
and individual creativity of professional creative workers, the result of which is work or its 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
interpretation that has cultural and artistic value, works that have independent creative significance 
and have gained public recognition, participation of artists in the city and international exhibitions." 
Further, the letter states that the selection committee "in its majority consists of all the visual arts team 
members based on thel IFoundation,I I Affairs Department." On appeal, 
the Petitioner provides that "the administration of [QF AA] did not respond to our inquiry. 
Nevertheless, the fact of membership in a prestigious national organization can be confirmed by 
publications, catalogs, and awards." 
While we have considered the letter from Y-K-A-S-, we agree with the Director that his statements 
are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the QF AA requires prospective members to demonstrate 
"outstanding achievements" as a condition of admission. First, we note that the letter is unsigned and 
has limited probative value. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how artistic work "that has 
cultural and artistic value, independent creative significance, and gained public recognition" or artists 
who have participated in city and international exhibitions reflects outstanding achievements 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The letter's statements are broad and are not accompanied by any supporting evidence regarding the 
QF AA or its membership requirements, such as information from its website regarding membership 
and the application process, or its constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding 
the selection criteria and process for becoming an "honorary member." Furthermore, the letter does 
not indicate whether recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding achievements 
for membership, as required by the regulation. 7 For all the reasons discussed, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him and 
relating to his work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material. The record reflects that the Petitioner has submitted several 
articles and in-depth interviews that are about him and relating to his work, and which also include the 
required author, title, and date of publication. 8 Those items were published in Gulf Times, Gulf­
times.com, The Peninsula, S.thepeninsula.qa, and Travel To Art. Therefore, the remaining issue is 
whether the Petitioner established that any of the referenced articles or interviews were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 9 
7 Id. 
8 Other articles, published in LandEscape Contemporary Art Review, Landescapeart.yolasite.com, Boomer, Bmyspil 
Magazine, s.thepeninsula.qa, and gulf-times.com do not include a date and author, and therefore do not satisfy the criterion. 
In addition, an article from Gui 'Times dated I 12016, about a group exhibition of Ukrainian artists that includes the 
petitioner at the.__ ______ --J is about the exhibition and is not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about 
the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
9 See generalzv 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (instructing that in evaluating whether a submitted publication 
5 
In the request for evidence, the Director advised the Petitioner that each article submitted to satisfy 
this criterion should include: the title, date and author of the published material; the circulation (online 
and/or in print) of the publication in which it appeared; and comparative circulation data for major 
publications. Within his response, the Petitioner submitted online printouts from 
Thepeninsulaqatar.com, which indicate that the website has "over 65 million pageviews in 2020" and 
"is the top news website -in both English and Arabic -in Qatar." The information provided from the 
preceding website is not sufficient to demonstrate that the online version of the publication qualifies 
as major media. USCIS need not rely on self-serving assertions. 10 The Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient comparative circulation, readership, or viewership data to support his claim that he and his 
work have been featured in major media or major trade publications . 
The Petitioner also provided online printouts from Gulf-times.com that do not indicate the 
publication's circulation (on-line or in print); only that The Gulf Times "comprises several sections: 
editorial, analysis, news, economy, sports, library and archives, technical and local reporters." In light 
of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but also that the contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner, citing to his I I art project (also referred to in the record as 1 t 
.___________ ___.,, indicates that the influence ofhis work beyond his "employers, clients 
or customers is reflected in the involvement of numerous individuals from different countries, diverse 
social groups, and interests, including artists, musicians, politicians, students, and many others 
participating in the project." The record reflects that since 2016 the Petitioner through his I I 
project has[ lwith which he then 
creates art. In addition to other evidence related to his artistic projects, the Petitioner has provided 
letters from colleagues who praise his abilities as a visual artist. 11 However , the submitted letters do 
not contain sufficient information to establish how he has made an original contribution that has 
remarkably influenced or impacted the field. 
is a professional publication , major trade publication , or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation , readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
10 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) afj'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding 
that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). 
11 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one in determining whether 
the submitted evidence satisfies this criterion. 
6 
For instance, A-S-, an art consultant, indicates she met the Petitioner in Qatar in 2011 while organizing 
art auctions and exhibitions of international and regional art. She provides that the Petitioner was 
invited to paint a portrait of members of the Qatari ruling family and to decorate their residences with 
frescoes. She claims the I I project "started a wide social art movement~ I I in which 
"[ m Jany notable contemporaries including the royal family members, politicians, businessmen, 
ambassadors, scientist s , athletes, artists, and musicians visited [ the Petitioner's] studio to leave their 
,______________________ ...-art project." She asserts that "[a]ll the 
collected messares have been incorporated into the impressive artwork currently in the private 
collection ofthe....L________ ____,~' 
K-W-, a museum director and entrepreneur, states that the Petitioner's "project, t has 
received significant recognition and praise from notable figures, including the royal family of Qatar 
... who have visited his exhibitions and were very enthusiastic." He claims that the Petitioner "has 
contributed significantly to the contemporary art scene in the Arab world and beyond" and his 
"innovative techniques and exceptional skill have made him a recognized figure in the art world." 
The letters ofA-S-and K-W-indicate the originality ofthe Petitioner'sl Iproject, but the actual 
impact of his project on the wider field, or even within the Qatari artistic community, has not been 
established. In addition, while offering very high praise, K-W-does not explain how the Petitioner 
contributed to the art scene at an international level or indicate how his innovative artistic techniques 
or exceptional skill have impacted other artists. 
V-S-, the president of the Academy of Arts, confirms that the Petitioner presented 
an exhibition of hisl lart project in 2018 at thel lof the Arts, and asserts that the 
Petitioner "belongs to the circle of persons capable of introducing new ideas into the professional 
sphere." 
T-K, a candidate of art history, and A-V-who has worked with several art galleries, indicate they have 
known the Petitioner since 201 7 and praise his I I project. T-K states that "[b ]uilding upon the 
the participants transform them into a symbol of achieving significant ~----------~ personal and social goals." A-V-indicates that the project "brings together a diverse group of people 
from different communities, each unique in their mode of thought,I I uniting a collective force in a manifestation of art's._m_1-.s-s1-·o_n_fo_r_h-um_a_n-it-y-an_d_p_e_a_c~e 
around the world." But they do not provide sufficient, specific information that would support a 
finding that the Petitioner made an original contribution ofmajor significance in his field. Further, we 
note that the letter from A-V-is unsigned and has limited probative value. 
Submitted letters should specifically describe the Petitioner's contribution and its significance to the 
field. Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his work has had on the overall field. USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is regarded by his colleagues as a talented artist and demonstrates 
that he has achieved some recognition by participating in gallery exhibitions and through his original I !project. However, the record does not establish that he has already influenced or impacted 
the field at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance. For the reasons 
7 
discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that his work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. He has therefore established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the display criterion, he does not meet any additional 
criteria on appeal regarding awards, membership, published material, and original contributions. 
While he claims eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 12 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 2, 2023 In Re: 28650651 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
"not established an actual working relationship with I !' 1 The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
1 This conclusion in not a proper legal basis for denying the petition. The Director's determination is not based on the 
pertinent statute and regulations for the classification sought. 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 2 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 3 
In the appeal brief, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision erred in not addressing the 
Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act 
and the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(l)-(5). We agree with the Petitioner. For 
instance, the Director's decision did not determine if the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, or satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
With the a}peal, the Petitioner presents evidence of the Beneficiary's past working relationship with I prior to his death inl l For example, the Petitioner provides aO2020 article 
in ProPublica, which states: 
The Beneficia a few thousand dollars a iece to 
But 
what [the Beneficia wanted to ta e on 2019, wasn't the usual ~---~ 
infomercial. ~-----------~ 
Everyone has a different story about how [the Beneficiary] andC7 first met. [The 
Beneficia!Y] told an Israeli magazine that formerl I 
sentOa letter of introduction. said he had "no memory of that at all," adding 
that a former introduced them. 
~---------' told ProPublica that he introduced them at [ the Beneficiary's] 
request around 2011. 
Regardless, "I liked him right away,"LJsaid in a 2017 interview with an Israeli 
outlet. "Then we forged this kind of partnership and investment firm." 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by the petitioner objectively meets the parameters ofthe regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (stating that in the final merits dete1mination, USCIS officers 
should ·'[ e ]valuate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety for the final merits determination, 
in the context of the high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification"). 
2 
[The Beneficiary] is variousl described in Israeli news articles and on his Facebook 
a e as resident of '; and 
._____________ _." ProPublica could find no such entities, and D 
said they don't exist. [The Beneficiary] said he made up the names "to describe what 
we are doing." 
"He was obviously playing off my name," D said. "I did sign a few things with the 
[Beneficiary], but they went away because the business went out. . . . I said, sure I'll 
help. And then suddenly it was gone. Then he'd have another thing, and it was gone. 
He's a wheeler-dealer, but I felt sorry for him. I never envisioned him hurting anyone. 
But I certainly don't like him using my name without my authority. It's dangerous, 
what he's doing." 
In 2012, [the Beneficiary] and D co-founded ,____________ ___. m 
California, according to archived versions of its website. It aimed to develop digital 
platforms and content, and is no longer active. "He is an amateur bad businessperson 
with an ambition to gain notoriety just through the networking but not necessarily 
understanding how to launch products," said I I the group's former head of 
marketing. 
The article in ProPublica does not portray the Beneficiary as having sustained national or international 
acclaim in business or a level or a level of expertise rendering him among the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of his field, but we conclude that this article, as well as other corroborating 
evidence in the record, is sufficient to show that the Beneficiary had a past business relationship with I l The Petitioner has therefore overcome the Director's sole basis for denial of the petition. 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther 
review and entry of a new decision. The Director should consider all the evidence and determine if 
the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, or satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If the Beneficiary meets either of these 
initial evidence requirements, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated 
the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 In Re: 28562616 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television and film producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
In addition, the Director entered a separate finding that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented 
material facts in support of his petition. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) - (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is a television and film producer. The record reflects that he was in the 
United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status at the time of filing. 1 Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner 
claimed to meet four of these criteria, relating to awards, published material about him, display of his 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and leading or critical roles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), (vii) and (viii). 2 
The Director found in her decision that the Petitioner did not meet any of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).3 She further entered a finding that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts related to his achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner contests the 
Director's finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact and requests review of the previously 
1 We acknowledge that the 0-1 classification is intended for nonimmigrants with extraordinary ability or achievement. 
Nevertheless, the record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding . Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant 
categories have different criteria, definitions , and standards for persons working in the motion picture and television 
industry. "Extraordinary achievement " in reference to persons in the motion picture and television industry in the 
nonimmigrant 0-1 category means a very high level of accomplishment in that industry evidenced by a degree of skill and 
recognition significantly above that ordinarily encountered to the extent that the person is recognized as outstanding , 
notable, or leading in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects 
that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 We note that the Petitioner initially claimed to meet the criterion relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) , but 
he did not maintain that he meets this criterion within his responses to the Director's two notices of intent to deny (NOID) 
or on appeal. 
3 The Director indicated in her second NOID that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) , 
relating to published material, but did not mention this criterion in her decision. 
2 
submitted documentation submitted m support of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 e.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), and (viii). 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director did not provide the Petitioner sufficient 
information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for denial, or give sufficient 
consideration to the Petitioner's NOID responses, and as a result did not adequately support her finding 
of willful misrepresentation. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Accordingly, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further consideration and entry of a 
new decision. 
Prior to the denial, the Director issued two NOIDs in which she observed that "it appears that the 
Beneficiary misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role, and published material, which is 
material to whether the beneficiary is eligible for the requested benefit." The Director's NOrDs stated 
as follows: 
The Beneficiary claimed various productions was queried for verification purposes. 
users did not find any evidence to support the beneficiary's claim. The majority of 
evidence submitted made no mention of the beneficiary. After extensive research, 
users did not find any evidence to support the required criteria for this benefit. By 
claiming false claims, the beneficiary willfully made a false representation, and it is 
material to whether[] he is eligible for the requested benefit. users intends to enter a 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the beneficiary. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had "willfully made a false representation" by claiming 
"various productions." The Director did not specifically identify the productions queried in attempting 
to verify the Petitioner's claimed expertise, critical role, and published material and, therefore, did not 
provide the Petitioner sufficient information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for 
denial. 
Regarding the first NOTD, the Petitioner, through counsel, responded to the Director's assertions and 
submitted additional evidence intended to rebut the Director's intent to enter a finding of willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. Specifically, he asserted that he did not make any false claims in 
his petition. He requested review ofthe previously submitted documentation in support ofthe claimed 
awards, published materials, display, and leading or critical role criteria, and stated that "[ a ]11 the 
evidence provided and all information explained in the supporting documentation is real work that has 
been performed by the Applicant." His response included an additional letter from L-A-, who 
reaffirmed the Petitioner's work atl INetworks Latin America onl I 
I l and two additional published articles regarding the screening of his short films I II k 1997) and I 1(2006) at ft Im festivals. 
In addition, the Petitioner emphasized users' "lack of specificity in this NOrD" in not "specifying 
the basis for the proposed denial sufficient to give the Applicant adequate notice and sufficient 
3 
information to respond, as required by 8 CFR § 103.2(b)(8)(iv)." The Petitioner also noted that for 
the published materials, display, and leading or critical role criteria, the Director provided a summary 
of the requirements for each criterion then stated, without analysis, that "the submitted evidence does 
not meet this criterion." 
As noted, the Director's second NOID again observed that "it appears that the Beneficiary 
misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role and published material,"4 based upon his "claimed 
various productions" which the Director "queried for verification purposes." In response, the 
Petitioner again highlighted several previously submitted recommendation letters discussing his role 
on productions as evidence "that he did not misrepresent his talent in the film/television industry." 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not successfully rebutted her 
initial finding that he had misrepresented a material fact in his "claim to be an acclaimed producer," 
while repeating that it "appears" he "misrepresented his level of expertise, critical role, and published 
material." Here, the denial decision did not address the Petitioner's arguments made in his NOID 
responses, including to consider other evidence in the record such as awards certificates, paystubs, 
letters of recommendation from television and film production companies, and published articles. 
Although she acknowledged the Petitioner's submission ofdocumentation, the Director did not explain 
why the evidence did not overcome her findings in the NOIDs. 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Director's final decision did not provide the Petitioner 
sufficient information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for denial, or adequately 
consider the Petitioner's response to the NO IDs, and as a result, did not sufficiently explain the reasons 
for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). The Director's decision is withdrawn and the 
matter will be remanded for further consideration, which may include issuance of a new notice of 
intent to deny if the new decision will include a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
We further observe that the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). With respect 
to the awards criterion, the Director's analysis was based in part on a determination that the Petitioner 
submitted documentation that she believed to be inconsistent, without identifying specific, unresolved 
inconsistencies in the record. 
Moreover, in evaluating the display and leading or critical role criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
and (viii), the Director's analysis was based, in large part, on a blanket determination that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence, including letters of recommendation, that "was specifically created/manufactured 
to fraudulently qualify the beneficiary for this immigrant petition." The Director did not specifically 
identify the fraudulent documentation. In addition, the Director did not indicate that USCIS had 
attempted to verify the authenticity of any of the submitted letters by contacting the authors or had 
otherwise confirmed that they were fabricated. Further, as noted, the Director did not consider other 
evidence in the record. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should reevaluate all the documentation the Petitioner 
4 As the Petitioner notes on appeal, this statement is inconsistent with the Director's statement elsewhere in the second 
NOID that he met the published material criterion. 
4 
initially submitted in support of individual evidentiary criteria, along with his NOTD responses and 
arguments on appeal. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 In Re: 27693286 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that her entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. We will also enter a finding ofwillful misrepresentation ofmaterial facts. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of the individual's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen ofBangladesh, claims to have been a published writer since 1997, 
writing four volumes of poetry, a book of short stories, and a novel. Her poems have also appeared in 
various newspapers, and in 2016 she began working as a script writer for Voice of Bangladesh. The 
Petitioner entered the United States in November 2020 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
A. Willful Misrepresentation ofMaterial Facts 
Before we discuss the merits of the appeal and the underlying petition, we begin with a finding that the 
Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in this proceeding. 
Misrepresentation ofa material fact may lead to multiple consequences in immigration proceedings. Any 
noncitizen who, by fraud or willfully misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to 
procure or has procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other benefit 
provided under the Act is inadmissible. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 182(a)(6)(C)(i). 
Under Board of Immigration Appeals precedent, a material misrepresentation is one which "tends to shut 
off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility and which might well have resulted in a 
proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofS-and B-C-, 9 I&N Dec. 436,447 (BIA 1961). 
A willful misrepresentation requires that the individual knowingly make a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. 
Sergueeva v. Holder, 324 Fed. Appx. 76 (2d Cir. 2009) (citing Matter ofKai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 
288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). Material misrepresentation requires only a false statement that is material and 
willfully made. See 9 FAM 40.63 N2; see also Matter of Tijam, 22 I&N Dec. 408, 424 (BIA 1998) 
(en bane) (Rosenberg, concurring). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as 
distinguished from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See 
Matter ofHealy and Goodchild, l 7 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). 
The Petitioner submitted printouts of several articles purporting to be from various online newspapers. 
Efforts to verify the Petitioner's evidence, by following the web links printed on the submitted articles, 
showed that at least three of these articles were falsified, with the Petitioner's name, photograph, and 
other information inserted into existing articles that were actually about other people. 
2 
The earliest claimed article, attributed to Ju an tor onl I 2019, includes photographs of eight 
individuals, with the Petitioner.__r-------.--~ The text of the submitted article lists the names of 30 
people, with the Petitioner's name in the list. The web address on the printout actually leads to an 
article froml l2022, showing seven of the same eight photoraph,, with another person's 
photograph in place of the Petitioner's. A different person's name is the listed. The Petitioner's 
name does not appear. 
The second claimed article, said to have appeared on the Bengali website! I 
D2019, also includes photographs of eight individuals, with the Petitioner's imagel I II 
In the submitted p1intout, the Petitioner's is thQof eight listed names. The atiicle at the 
web address provided shows seven ofthe same photographs, with a different individual shown instead of 
the Petitioner, and theOlisted name is not the Petitioner's name. The Petitioner's name is not listed 
at all on this version. 
The third claimed article, attributed to~nd datedl I2019, pmpmis to be solely about 
the Petitioner's claimed receipt of thel___J Award. The authentic article at the link provided, 
however, is datedl 12022, and names a different author as the winner ofthe I !Award. 
The info1mation summarized above indicates that the Petitioner, or someone acting on her behalf: altered 
authentic articles from 2022 by inserting her name and photograph, and backdated those articles to 2019. 
Because the genuine online newspaper articles originated outside the record of proceeding, we issued a 
notice of intent to dismiss (NOID) on August 15, 2023, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). We 
advised the Petitioner that, if she were unable to rebut and overcome this derogatory information, we 
would dismiss the appeal with a finding that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented material facts. 
In response, the Petitioner states: 
All the news articles I intended to provide were from 2019. At that time,!.______ ___. 
.____________ ~were focused on printed versions and their online portals 
were not properly updated. After the Covid-19 pandemic, all ofthese newspapers started 
updating their online portals. Due to upgradation oftheir portals and server, many articles 
could not be updated and some were mistakenly deleted. As a result, many links to these 
portals were faulty and they did not work. Instead, these links redirected to other news 
articles.... 
We have provided the proper article's links ... and also collected signed statements from 
the Editors ofthose newspapers that there [sic] articles were authentically published. 
The Petitioner claims that the links she provided "redirected to other news articles," but we have shown 
that the authentic articles are largely similar to the printouts the Petitioner submitted, except that they do 
not include her name or image. The names and photographs ofthe other people in those articles appear 
in the same order as in the printouts that the Petitioner submitted. 
3 
Critically, the Petitioner submits no evidence to corroborate her claim that the articles were accidentally 
deleted from the websites of.___________________ ~during portal or server 
upgrades. Instead, she claims that exactly the same articles also appeared on three other websites. The 
Petitioner submits letters attributed to the editors ofl I and 
.__________ _, attesting that their respective websites carried the articles described above. The 
letters contain web addresses that lead to articles that match the printouts that the Petitioner had previously 
submitted. 
The three u orted editors do not claim or document an affiliation between I 
'-----r----------.---------------~rbetween"'" I=_.________ ....., 
and._________ _, and they do not claim that they took their articles from the other named 
publications. The letters do not explain why the newly linked articles are identical to the printouts that 
the Petitioner had previously submitted, attributed to three different publications. 
It is the petitioner's responsibility and burden to resolve any inconsistencies in the record with 
independent objective evidence, and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies will not suffice 
without competent objective evidence pointing to where the trnth, in fact, lies. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner's response to the NOID does not meet this standard. 
Without credibly corroborated explanations, the appearance of identical articles on different websites 
raises questions about the trne origin ofthe articles. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish 
that the newly submitted links were operational at the time of their claimed publication in 2019, or that 
the articles at those links existed on any website in 2019. 1 We note that the Petitioner had previously 
submitted other printouts from.__ _________________ ___. published in 2020, 
but she did not claim at that time that either ofthose publications had published the newly-claimed articles 
about her in 2019. 
The Petitioner has not established that the printouts she previously submitted are authentic articles 
published by.__ ________________ ~in 2019. The Petitioner had specifically 
submitted the printouts as evidence in supp01i ofmaterial claims. Her attempts to explain the derogat01y 
evidence raise more questions. We conclude, therefore, that those originally submitted printouts were 
falsified in order to support the petition. The active substitution of the Petitioner's name and image in 
place of the names and images of other people shows that the falsification was willful rather than 
inadvertent. 
The information in the falsified articles is material to the petition because it relates to eligibility criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ix), pertaining, respectively, to prizes and high remuneration. 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in seeking to 
procure a benefit under the Act. 
1 The newly claimed I !article at httosl hs datedl 12019. 
The next consecutively numbered web address, httpsJ I, shows the same photograph of 
the Petitioner, the Petitioner's first name, and a publication date otl I2023 about three weeks after 
we issued the NOID, and four days before the date of the letter attributed to the publisher oti I 
4 
A petition can only be properly approved upon a determination that the facts stated in the petition are true. 
See section 204(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 154(b ). Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may 
undermine the reliability and sufficiency ofthe remaining evidence offered in support ofthe visa petition. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. Therefore, we may view other record evidence through the lens of 
the Petitioner's diminished credibility. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets all the claimed criteria. We will discuss these claimed criteria below. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted letters and copies of certificates relating to three claimed awards: 
• A Certificate of Excellence from Voice of Bangladesh for writing the scripts for the~I--~ 
'------,-----,_,Movement and Book Publication Campaign"; 
• The Award "for Overall Contribution to Bengali Poetry" at the 20191.______ ____. 
described as an annual Bengali poetry festival; and 
• The'--____ _.Award from the Bengali Cultural Forum in 2019. 
A letter attributed to the president of the Bengali Culture and Culture Forum [sic] states: "This award is 
a recognition of [the Petitioner's] commitment, talent and continued effort for Bengali Literature." A 
letter attributed to the chairperson of the 2019 I I calls the Petitioner "a very big 
name in the poetry scene in Bangladesh." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had "not provided sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that each award ... is nationally or internationally recognized." The Director 
requested further information about the awards and their recognition. 
In response, the Petitioner claimed that the awards attracted media attention. She submitted printouts of 
articles purportedly published in 2019 by.__ _______________ ____. As discussed 
above, based on the evidence of record, we have concluded that these articles are altered versions of 
articles about other people. Therefore, we do not give these articles any evidentiary weight. 
5 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to show that the claimed 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner must establish the recognition of the 
awards she received. Information about the awarding entities, or the events where she received the 
awards, do not suffice in this regard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner describes previously submitted evidence, including "letters from award[ing] 
organizations confoming the awards' selection criteria and their national scope and reputation." Letters 
from the awarding entities alone are not direct evidence ofrecognition ofthe awards beyond those entities. 
The only submitted evidence ofwider recognition of the awards is in the form of claimed online articles 
which, for reasons discussed above, have no credibility or weight in this proceeding. 
The falsified articles also raise doubts about the authenticity of the letters and certificates attesting to the 
Petitioner's receipt of the claimed awards. See Mattr of Ho, i19 I&N Dec. at 591. The certificate 
purporting to show the Petitioner's receipt of the 2019 Award is dated 2009. The low image 
resolution of submitted photographs relating to the Petitioner's claimed awards makes it difficult to draw 
fom conclusions about their authenticity. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner submitted materials attesting to her membership in the I !Academy, the~ 
Literature Club (USA), and the I Icenter for Public Service and the Arts L_J ~ The Petitioner did npi...sll.bl;nit any information about the membership requirements for the 
L___J Literature Club or the[___JCenter. 
A letter attributed to a fellow of the I !Academy lists "certain rules to be a member of._l_ ____. 
Academy." According to this letter, members must be citizens of Bangladesh "over 30 years old," who 
have "published books" and are "endorsed by a I !Academy fellow." The Petitioner has not 
established that any of these requirements amount to outstanding achievements. A separate letter, 
attributed to the general director of thel !Academy, does not discuss membership requirements but 
specifies that the Petitioner "has been a member of thel !Academy since 1996." The Petitioner 
turned 22 years old in late 1996. Therefore, this letter contradicts the claim that members "have to be 
over 30 years old." The Petitioner has not established the membership requirements of the I 
Academy at the time she joined in 1996. 
The Petitioner also submitted a photocopy ofher press pass from I Th1 Petitioner did 
not establish that I lis an association in the field. The pass identifies I _ as an "Online 
Newspaper & News Agency," and states the Petitioner's title as "Sub Editor." This indicates that the 
Petitioner was an employee of a news organization, rather than a member in an association. 
6 I 
In Tsponsl to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted information about thel !Academy and 
the Center, but this information does nol specify the membership requirements for either 
organization. A letter attributed to the director ofthe Center includes this passage: "[The Petitioner] 
hal great1y contributed in [sic] the cultural sector of Bangladesh. Hence, she was accepted as a member 
of Center." This letter does not establish that such contributions were a requirement to become a 
member. The Petitioner submitted screen captures from theD Center's website, but these images do 
not show membership requirements. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE also included this statement: "Bangladesh Television Playwright 
Association (BTPA): [The Petitioner] has been a member of BTPA since 2010. Membership in BTPA 
requires that a person must first establish herself in the country's culture and literature. Exhibit E." 
Exhibit E includes a letter attributed to the president of the BTPA. But the letter does not say that the 
Beneficiary is a member of the BTPA. Rather, the author of the letter described the purported 
membership requirements in "the cultural and literature organization named j I" 
(GSA). The individual stated: "To be a member ofl Ione has to be an established 
personnel [sic] in cultural or literature sector of Bangladesh. He/she has to be recommended by 3 
renowned persons of this sector. After this initial process, we hold a 6 month evaluation period." The 
letter indicates that the Petitioner "completed these steps and became a member of our organization in 
2010." 
The author of the letter does not claim to be an official ofthe GSA, and the record does not contain first­
hand documentation, such as the GSA's bylaws, to confirm the membership requirements or define the 
term "established person." Therefore, the letter does not suffice to establish that the GSA requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. The record does not establish what connection, if any, exists 
between the newly-claimed GSA and the I !Literature Club (USA) named in the initial filing of 
the petition. 
The Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that any of the Petitioner's claimed 
memberships require outstanding achievements. On appeal, the Petitioner describes past submissions, 
but the exhibits described on appeal do not meet the regulatory requirements. For example, the Petitioner 
describes thel I Academy as "an autonomous institution funded by the government to foster Bengali 
language, literature, and culture." The Petitioner does not explain how these facts establish that her 
membership in thel !Academy meets the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in thefieldfor which classffication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted copies of 13 articles from newspapers in Bangladesh, either printouts 
from websites or ]:hotocopies of print articles. Two aiiicles are reviews of her writings. Three a1iicles 
cover al 2020 event in the Petitioner's honor, hosted by a New York publisher. The rest are all 
interviews or biographical profiles of the Petitioner, containing general information about her 
background, her career, and her beliefs. 
7 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted copies ofthree articles from._________ ____, All 
these articles were published in 2022, more than a year after the Petitioner filed the petition in March 
2021. These materials cannot establish that the Petitioner met all eligibility requirements at the time of 
filing the petition as required at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner also submitted some of her own 
published poems, which are published materials by her, rather than about her as the regulation requires. 
The Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that the articles appeared in qualifying 
major media. But the Petitioner submitted circulation data attributed to the Information Minist1 of 
Bangladesh, indicating that thatl are 
"top national dailies in Bangladesh." 
Although the Petitioner has established that some of the articles appeared in major media, the published 
materials are deficient for other reasons. 
Most of the articles are in Bengali, with English translations. Foreign-language documents must include 
a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and the 
translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3 ). The submitted translations do not include the required ce1tifications. 
None ofthe aiticles has an author credit as required by the regulation. The anonymity of the authors is 
particularly significant given the proximity oftheir publication -all the initially claimed articles appeared 
between~------~2020, shortly before the Petitioner filed the petition in March 2021 -and 
the broad similarity of several articles to one another. The English translations of aiticles from I II lboth published the same day, are identical to one another. Both 
of those translations have the same basic structure as an English-language article with the same title, 
published da s earlier in As discussed above, other articles from I I 
and were published under questionable circumstances. Likewise, the translations 
of three articles from,______, 2020 -published inI I-include some identical passages. 2 .___________________ __. 
The published materials submitted by the Petitioner do not meet all the regulatory requirements. Apart 
from deficiencies such as anonymous authorship, some ofthe claimed articles have been falsified as set 
fo1th above, and others are highly questionable due to circumstances such as identical wording. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
2 The shared language is consistent with a common source, particularly a passage that uses a first-person pronoun: "[the] 
President of Muktodhara ... told us 'New York Bengalis accepted her with [sic] full ofjoy" ( emphasis added). Even if 
the articles truly appeared in the named newspapers, the unexplained use of this identical language in what purport to be 
three independently published newspaper articles would raise questions about the circumstances of their publication. In 
this case, given the submission of other falsified newspaper articles and the Petitioner's unsatisfactory explanations for 
other anomalies relating to published material, the three anonymous I 12020 articles have diminished credibility. 
8 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion because she "has contributed to Bengali literature through 
her six books" which "have been well received. . . . [S]he has also published poems and short stories in 
national-level newspapers." The Petitioner submitted copies of published poems and photographs of 
book jackets. 
Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases involves public showings. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Petitioner has not established that there 
have been public showings ofher work, as distinct from print publication ofthat work. The record does 
not show that the newspapers reproduced in the record are artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Petitioner submitted photographs ofherself at various gatherings, but she did not establish that any 
ofthese gatherings were showcases or exhibitions ofher litera1y work. 
In the RFE, the Director identified evidence that the Petitioner could provide to satisfy the criterion. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address or mention the display criterion. Therefore, the Director 
concluded the Petitioner had not met the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that her work has been published, but the Petitioner does 
not explain how print publication amounts to display at an artistic showcase or exhibition. Without that 
information, she has not met her burden of proof to show that her evidence meets evidentiary 
requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements ofthis criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of publishing agreements and letters from publishers. Many of these 
documents do not specify amounts paid to the Petitioner or provide the necessary basis of comparison 
between the Petitioner's remuneration and that of others in the field. Some contracts specify percentage­
based royalty rates, with no indication as to whether the Petitioner's rates were higher than others in the 
field. A 1999 contract with.__ _____ ____. specified weekly payments of20,000 Bangladeshi Taka 
(BDT) relating to one ofthe Petitioner's books. Five years later, a 2004 contract with I I 
specified quarterly payments of 100,000 BDT for another book. Those contracts also cited percentage 
royalty rates. The contracts do not appear to specify whether the fixed amounts are applied against, or 
added to, the percentage figures. 
The publisher of the newspape~ lstated that the Petitioner "is one of the top paid contributor[ s] 
of our paper." This vague assertion is not sufficient to satisfy the criterion. The requirement is a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. The Petitioner did not 
establish that the range ofremuneration paid to I !contributors is representative ofthe field. In the 
absence of such information, being among the highest-paid writers at one newspaper is too narrow to 
satisfy the criterion. By the same reasoning, another letter calling the Petitioner "one of the top paid 
writer[ s ]" atl Idoes not permit the required field-wide comparison. 
9 
Documents show that Voice of Bangladesh hired the Beneficiary "on [a] contract basis for the position 
of a Script Writer," with a starting monthly salary of 20,000 BDT in 2016. An invoice from mid-2020 
shows that the amount had risen to 50,000 BDT per month. The Petitioner did not provide any basis for 
comparison to give context to these figures. 
Undated vouchers froml Ishow three payments of30,000 BDT each. One voucher indicated 
that the Petitioner consulted on "manual development on popular theatre"; the second voucher referred 
to "training facilitation for popular theatre training"; and the third stated that the Petitioner received a 
"consultancy fee for children's book writing." Once again, there is no basis for comparison with others 
in the field. Also, without more details, the vouchers do not show that the Petitioner was paid for working 
as a writer or poet, for other services, or some combination thereof. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner "did not provide sufficient financial documentation 
(e.g., payroll records or income tax forms) demonstrating [her] actual earnings for any given period of 
time." The Director requested reliable documentation of the Petitioner's earnings in her field and 
evidence to show how her earnings compare to others in her field. 
The Director also stated that the Petitioner "provided evidence for Bangladesh," and needed to show that 
her remuneration was high "in relation to others in the field, in the United States." We agree with the 
Petitioner that she need not compare her past remuneration to writers in the United States, because she 
earned that remuneration in Bangladesh. Nevertheless, the burden remains on the Petitioner to establish 
the actual amount of her remuneration and provide a reliable basis for comparison to show that her 
remuneration is high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner's response did not include any objective documentation of her earnings. She submitted a 
printout of a purported I !article, calling the Petitioner '1 !Academy's best-selling author." 
As discussed earlier in this decision, we have concluded based on the evidence that this article is not 
authentic. The provided web address links to a different article from three years later. 
The Petitioner submitted letters attributed to four different publishers in Bangladesh. Three of the letters 
called the Petitioner the highest paid writer in Bangladesh; the fourth states that she is "one of the most 
bestseller [sic] writers ofBangladesh." The letters are not supported by documentary evidence. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not fully documented her earnings or 
provided an objective basis for comparison with other writers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her "earnings through works of literature are shown by the 
documents" submitted previously. As shown above, the Petitioner has provided only fragmentary 
documentation ofher earnings, and she has not submitted any objective basis to show that those earnings 
are high in relation to others in the field. Letters calling her the highest-paid writer in Bangladesh have 
limited evidentiary value in the absence of other independent objective evidence. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements ofthis criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion, 
concerning participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 For the same reason, we also 
reserve the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work at a level that 
shows sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner claims to be among the best-selling 
authors in Bangladesh, but her evidence is fragmentary and lacking in credibility, particularly given 
her submission of altered or falsified articles. The genuine, verifiable articles about the Petitioner all 
appeared within a short window of time coinciding with the Petitioner's travel to the United States 
and do not reflect the decades of acclaim that the Petitioner claims to have earned. Book sales are a 
matter ofmeasurable, objective fact, and therefore documentary evidence ought to exist to support the 
claim that her books are bestsellers, but the Petitioner has not submitted such evidence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. We also find that the Petitioner has willfully misrepresented material 
facts relating to claimed news articles from 2019, as discussed above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2023 InRe: 28881711 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a restaurant business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an executive chef, as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
satisfying at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a chef who completed his culinary training in the United Kingdom and has over 14 
years of progressive professional experience in his field. The Petitioner, which operates an upscale 
restaurant in southern California, has employed him as its executive chef since 2019. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim the Beneficiary qualifies for extraordinary ability classification based 
on a one-time achievement; therefore, it must submit evidence demonstrating that he meets at least 
three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that the Beneficiary has performed in leading or 
critical roles for establishments that have a distinguished reputation and therefore satisfies the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports this conclusion based on evidence related to the 
Beneficiary's leading or critical roles with the Petitioner and a prior U.S. employer, a Los Angeles­
based restaurant that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the previously submitted evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary 
meets two additional criteria and that the Director erred in determining he is not eligible for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 Specifically, the Petitioner maintains that it 
met its burden to establish that the Beneficiary has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases and that he has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (ix). 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary could meet up to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), 
including the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence, and at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary meets either of these criteria and the 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings or otherwise address these criteria on appeal. An issue not raised on 
appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter o(O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N 
Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
At the time of filing in September 2021, the Petitioner provided evidence that the Beneficiary was 
earning an annual salary of $85,000 for his services as an executive chef. Evidence relevant to 
demonstrating that a given salary is a "high salary" may include comparative wage or remuneration 
data for the person's field, such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See 
generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing 
guidance on evaluating initial evidence ofextraordinary ability under the regulatory criteria at 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)). 
In support of its claim that the Beneficiary commands a high salary in relation to others, the Petitioner 
submitted the Bureau of Labor Statistics' (BLS) Occupational Outlook Handbook entry for "Chefs 
and Head Cooks," which states that the median annual wage for the occupation in the United States 
was $53,380 in May 2020, with the 10 percent of workers in the field earning more than $90,790. The 
submitted excerpt states that "pay is usually highest in upscale restaurants and hotels, where many 
executive chefs work, as well as in major metropolitan and resort areas." The Petitioner also submitted 
BLS Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics data which indicated a mean annual wage of 
$59,190 for chefs and head cooks in thel !metropolitan area. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the BLS data alone was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has commanded a "high salary" as required by the plain 
language of the regulation. We agree as the submitted data included only an average salary for the 
city where the Beneficiary works and therefore cannot sufficiently support a claim that his salary is 
high, as opposed to "above average," in relation to similarly employed workers in the same geographic 
area. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included additional evidence of the Beneficiary's earnings for 
the years 2022 and 2023, including evidence that he earned a salary of $95,000 as of early 2023. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously excluded this evidence. However, as noted 
by the Director, the Petitioner's evidence must establish the Beneficiary met this criterion at the time 
it filed this petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A visa petition may not be approved when a 
beneficiary, initially ineligible at the time of filing, becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Therefore, our analysis of this 
criterion is based on evidence of the Beneficiary's annual salary as of September 2021. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion; however, the decision does not 
fully address the evidence submitted in response to the RFE, which included additional salary data 
published by Glassdoor, Indeed and ZipRecruiter. The data from Glassdoor indicates an average salary 
of $52,752 for the position of "head chef' in the United States, with the highest earners receiving up 
to $78,000; however, it does not provide salary data for the metropolitan area where the Beneficiary 
works. Further, Glassdoor lists "executive chef' as a "related career" with a higher average salary of 
$65,491. Given that the Beneficiary is employed as an executive chef and performs higher level duties 
than those attributed to "head chefs," we cannot conclude that the head chef data provides an 
appropriate basis for comparison. 
3 
The information the Petitioner submitted from Indeed indicates that the average base salary for a head 
chef in the United States is $58,778 and it identifies a "high" salary of $83,048. However, it also 
identifies I lamong the highest paying cities for this occupation, with an average annual 
salary of $76,159. While the Beneficiary's salary of $85,000 is above this average salary for a similar 
but distinct occupation, there is insufficient data to support a determination that he earns a high salary 
in relation to others working as executive chefs in [ I Finally, the information from 
ZipRecruiter is insufficient for similar reasons, as it is limited to national data for the occupation of 
"head chef'' and is therefore not a position-appropriate or geographically specific compensation 
survey. The Petitioner did not submit salary data for "executive chefs" from either of these sources or 
indicate that such information was not available. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided California wages for chefs and head cooks from the U.S. Department 
ofLabor's (DOL) O*Net Online website. This occupation includes executive chefs, but also positions 
such as chefs de cuisine, sous chefs, and private chefs. This DOL source indicates that the top 10 
percent of workers in the I !metropolitan area earn a salary of $103,930 or higher. While 
the Beneficiary's $85,000 annual salary is higher than the reported average, the evidence does not 
support a determination that it is a "high salary" in relation to similarly employed executive chefs in 
the same geographic area. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), but did not establish that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), as claimed. As such, 
the Petitioner has not met its burden to establish that he meets the initial evidence requirement for this 
classification. Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this criterion. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approvals 
We acknowledge that the Beneficiary is employed by the Petitioner in 0-1 B status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants ofextraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has approved at least 
two 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approvals do not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, 
definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" 
in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant 
context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field. Moreover, each petition is separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its 
own merits, under the corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary has 
a qualifying one-time achievement or that he meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary has the sustained acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for a highly restnct1ve visa 
classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2023 In Re: 28694371 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a makeup artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. The Petitioner bears 
the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. 
Matter of Christo 's , Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
1On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence. She asserts the Director erred in 
finding she did not satisfy the criteria related to judging the work of others, publications about the 
Petitioner, high salary, membership in professional associations , playing a leading or critical role, and 
lesser-known awards.2 
1 USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit they seek at the time the petition 
is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). Therefore, we do not consider publications that postdate the petition filing as evidence 
that establishes the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing. However, were we to engage in a final merits determination , 
we could consider this evidence as support for a finding of sustained acclaim. 
2 Although an introductory paragraph of the appellate brief states the Petitioner is eligible under the original contributions 
of major significance criterion, the brief contains no evidence or arguments addressing the Director's determination under 
this criterion. Therefore, we consider this issue to be abandoned . See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 
2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See 
also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'v Gen ., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham , 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011 , 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 l&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) Uoining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner cites Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) for the proposition that the 
evidentiary criteria for establishing eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability is more 
qualitative than a mere counting exercise.3 We do not disagree this contention. The Buletini opinion 
indicates the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three 
criteria and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and 
substantiated reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini 
did not reject the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification.4 
The Petitioner asserts the Director applied the wrong standard when considering the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), related to a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; however, 
the Petitioner does not explain how specifically this occurred. Likewise, for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, the 
Petitioner contends the record does not support the Director's conclusions, but she does not explain 
how or in what way. The Petitioner has not identified a specific error related to these criteria but rather 
broadly disagrees with the Director's conclusions of her eligibility under them. Moreover, she has not 
addressed the evidentiary deficiencies the Director identified. As such, she has not overcome the 
Director's determination under these criteria. 
Regarding the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner asserts the Director erred in 
assuming the I !Academy was an educational institution with cosmetology and fashion 
curriculum where the Petitioner served in an instructor role. However, the Petitioner provided a letter 
from the founder of the academy, stating the Petitioner worked as "a make-up teacher." Therefore, 
we conclude the Director's assumption had some basis. Neve1iheless, the Petitioner states on appeal 
that she participated in a fashion project as a jury member or a makeup artist and relies upon the 
evidence previously provided, including the letter from the founder. Based upon the Petitioner's use 
of the word "or," it is unclear whether the Petitioner served in a jury role or a makeup artist role. In 
addition, the Petitioner does not address the evidentiary deficiencies the Director identified under this 
criterion and therefore she does not overcome them. 
3 In contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court (such as with Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010)), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United States district court 
in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a 
district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have 
to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. 
4 The Petitioner also cites Gulen v. Chertoff, No. 07-2148, 2008 WL 2779001 (E.D. Pa. July 16, 2008) to conclude that if 
a petitioner meets three criteria, it is contrary to law if USCIS concludes that such a petitioner is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability. However, as our decision explains, the Petitioner does not meet at least three criteria. In addition, 
even if this case were applicable to the Petitioner, it would still constitute a pre-Kazarian federal district court decision 
that we need not follow. 
2 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), related to published material about the Petitioner in trade 
publications or other major media, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that Aquarelle is atrade publication 
or major medium. However, the Petitioner has not provided independent and objective evidence to 
support this claim. We will not rely upon the assertions of Counsel as evidence. See, e.g., Matter of 
S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not 
evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Nor will we rely on the publisher's 
self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) ajf'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that a magazine cover's self-serving assertions regarding 
the magazine's status are not reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. 
CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). For the reasons the 
Director already explained, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3[°x), related to high salary, the Petitioner provides a letter from her 
accountant, I Although I I lists the Petitioner's salary and provides 
comparative salaries for Moldovan women working in "artists/entertainment and recreation," we 
conclude that, for numerous reasons, the letter does not overcome the deficiencies the Director 
identified. Some of the reasons include that it does not corroborate the Petitioner's annual income 
with evidence such as payroll, bank, or tax statements, nor does it include documentation explaining 
how the general category of "artists/entertainment and recreation" is the comparative "best match" for 
the Petitioner's occupation and field. It also does not describe howl Ihas a "personal" and 
"working" knowledge of average salaries for makeup artists in Moldova. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), related to membership in organizations that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, the Petitioner asserts the Director should have determined the 
evidence established eligibility because (1) the Theater Union of Moldova (UN ITEM) is a professional 
association; (2) its membership extends to makeup artists; and (3) the qualifying requirement of "any 
creative person" establishes that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
Regarding (1), the documents in the record about UN ITEM state it is a "public association." There is 
little indication of what specifically the Petitioner relied upon for her conclusion that the association 
is "professional," nor does the Petitioner explain how UNITEM's purported professional nature 
establishes her eligibility under this criterion. Regarding (2), we reviewed the Petitioner's membership 
certificate and do not dispute the Petitioner's conclusion that makeup artists can be members of 
UNITEM. Regarding (3), the Petitioner states that the "creative person" qualifier "calls for 
discretionary decision voted by majority of Senate where prospective applicant must supply 
recommendation from at least three members of' UNITEM and that "creative" is a judgment in 
relationship to a prospective member for which "it is reasonable to conclude that an evaluator or rather 
a group of evaluators should be of advance knowledge (expe1is)" (errors in original). While we 
acknowledge these assertions, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to establish eligibility 
under this criterion for the reasons the Director already articulated. 
For the reasons the Director discussed and those explained above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 16, 2023 In Re: 28423935 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by apreponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, then we consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 0Af.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she received a major, internationally recognized award, 
she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The 
Director found the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), that 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts she meets six additional evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate she received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The description of 
this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the foreign national's receipt 
ofthe awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt ofthe awards or prizes.2 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of 28 certificates, diplomas, and awards that she and her dance 
studio received for various events. These awards do not satisfy the plain language of the criteria for 
several reasons. First, the documentation regarding these awards does not clearly specify that the 
Petitioner received the award for her choreography. In some instances, the award has the word 
"choreography" in it; however, the documentation in the record appears not to clearly differentiate 
between her ability in choreography, as opposed to teaching how to choreograph, teaching dance, or 
dance performance. 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol icymanual/HTM L/Pol icyManual. htm I. 
2 Id. 
2 
The Director noted that various awards reflected recognition for performance, rather than national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field of choreography. Most of the competitions' stated 
goals relate to inclusion, support, encouragement, child involvement, and teacher development, rather 
than a determination of who is at the top of their field. While the Petitioner may have won awards in 
connection with the dance performances of the children she taught, this is not a clear indicator that the 
award is for choreography. Even if it were clear that the awards relate to choreography, there is 
insufficient indication that it would be for excellence in the field. We acknowledge the categories under 
which the Petitioner won awards; however, it remains unclear why the Petitioner won the award in that 
category. The documentation about the awards offers little analysis of the Petitioner's choreography or 
how it places the Petitioner above others in the field. Further, the record does not include comparative 
information regarding how many awards for choreography other people received in the competitions. In 
fact, the entry information for many of the competitions states that every participant receives an award 
regardless of their placement. 
The Petitioner emphasized the national and international nature of the awards; however, the 
documentation does not substantiate this. While we acknowledge that the competitions may be open to 
national or international competitors, the various nationalities of the people who may participate in the 
competition do not necessarily bear upon the national or international recognition of the award. The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence that these awards are recognized beyond the event or 
organization on a national or international level and are recognized for excellence in the field of 
choreography. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought.3 
The record supports a finding that the Petitioner is a member of the International Dance Council (CID); 
however, the Petitioner did not establish membership in CID requires outstanding achievements. We 
reviewed the steps required to become a member do not find any that relate to requiring outstanding 
achievements of its members. CID "increases its membership constantly" and has more than 2,000 
institutional members and over 10,000 individual members. Without further context, these high 
numbers do not support a finding that members' achievements are assessed and determined to be 
outstanding. Further, constantly increasing membership suggests that individuals may become 
members at any time, as opposed to when they have demonstrated outstanding achievements in the 
field. Membership in CID appears to be based on a level of education or years of experience in a 
particular field and the payment of a fee. Such factors lead to a conclusion that the Petitioner's 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
3 
membership was not based on outstanding achievements in the field.4 As such, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in thefieldfor which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.5 
The Petitioner submitted a printout of an article entitled 'I I" The article is primarily 
about flamenco and only quotes or references the Petitioner. For example, the article references the 
Petitioner in relation to where she purchases students' dance shoes and what she tells students about 
flamenco. While the article mentions the Petitioner in the context of a dance competition and notes 
the age demographics of the people with whom she works, we agree with the Director that the article 
is not about her or her work in the field. Articles that are not about athe foreign national do not fulfill 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We need 
not reach the issue of whether the publisher, Kazpravda, would be considered a professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director erred in not considering the Petitioner's appearance on 
"Good Morning Kazakhstan." We reviewed the transcript and photos of the morning show but 
conclude it does not establish eligibility under this criterion. First we uestion the accurac of the 
translation.6 To illustrate, statements such as' " 
and ~----------------~' even when taken within the context of the 
morning show conversation, do not convey any meaning. Further, the morning show appears to have 
aired solely on YouTube, which is afree, on line video platform that enables individuals to upload their 
own videos and have their own channels. We do not consider YouTube to be a professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance.7 
4 Id. 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 English translations of foreign language documents are required under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
4 
The Petitioner submitted numerous reference letters from colleagues and professionals. However, the 
authors did not sufficiently describe the Petitioner's contributions or their significance to the field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are ofmajor significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.9 
The authors reference competitions the Petitioner's students won and offer general praise of her 
abilities and involvement in dance. Several authors claim the Petitioner was the first person in 
Kazakhstan to teach children flamenco and that she made flamenco relevant and accessible to modern 
audiences. However, the authors do not corroborate these assertions with objective, independent 
evidence. Even if we were to accept that the Petitioner was the first person in Kazakhstan to teach 
children flamenco, this would appear to relate to her ability in teaching dance, rather than in 
choreography. In addition, even if we were to accept that she made flamenco more popular in her city 
or country, it is unclear how this would be of major significance in the field of choreography or 
flamenco. The authors of the letters often label the Petitioner's work as "original" without providing 
sufficient details to substantiate such a characterization. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. See 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). To illustrate, 
teaching or performing dance in shopping malls does not appear to be an original idea or of major 
significance to the field of choreography. Similarly, it is not clear how "translating" flamenco to 
Russian speakers, making flamenco a '"new trend," or providing flamenco masterclasses and lectures 
is either original or of major significance in the field of choreography. 
Some authors reference that she developed 'l ~' a mixture of flamenco with more 
classical dance forms. However, the record does not sufficiently substantiate that this is an original 
contribution or that it is attributable to the Petitioner, as mixing genres and types of dance is common 
and longstanding. Further, simply because the fusion may contain the Petitioner's individual or 
creative style is not necessarily sufficient to establish its originality. Even if~-----~was 
developed or created by the Petitioner, she would still need to demonstrate its impact or influence 
beyond the people who engage her for performances, teaching, or lecturing.1 ° For instance, 
documentation describes the significance of the Petitioner's contributions, noting that she is a role 
model for children dancing flamenco in Kazakhstan, has positively impacted their development, and 
saved them from harmful lifestyles, as well as that she provides adult women with a method to 
overcome shyness. The record contains insufficiently detailed evidence to support these contributions, 
but even if it did, this would not establish how the contributions are of major significance in the 
choreography field. 
The Petitioner emphasized her involvement in the j r flamenco group; however, the record 
does not sufficiently describe her activities as a choreographer, as opposed to highlighting her activity 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
as a performer. The Petitioner asserts that she wrote a flamenco guide and runs a dance studio; 
however, she does not explain how creating a dance guide or opening a dance studio, even a unique 
one, is an original contribution. The Petitioner has not established that her personal achievements are 
original contributions which have been of major significance to the choreography field. We conclude 
she has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner must establish that she has perfonned in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establ ishment.11 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.12 
The Petitioner offered evidence that she won several awards; however, her "laureate role" is not 
sufficiently explained. The evidence does not provide meaningful analysis of her role as a 
choreographer in winning the awards. The Petitioner also submitted evidence that her dance studio 
contracts and collaborates with fitness studios and fitness membership services. While this indicates 
her classes are a form of exercise, without more, we conclude that entering into contracts or 
collaborations of this nature does not establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 
organizations of distinguished reputations. 
Regarding her role in the group, Counsel emphasized that '·thanks to" the Petitioner, the ~-~I group achieved success I in a short 
t' time and "could demonstrate dance and musical 
compositions for the residents of Further, "thanks to" her choreography abilities, all 
productions and programs became a series of lectures the I I group conducted. However, 
Counsel's unsubstantiated asse1iions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 l&N 
Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus 
are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Although we have thoroughly examined the evidence, 
there is insufficient information about her specific role in the I lgroup to substantiate a finding 
that it is leading or critical, particularly as flamenco involves more elements than just performances 
and dance choreography.13 I I
To the extent the evidence substantiates a finding that the Petitioner founded and is the chief 
choreographer of the 1 I' studio, we conclude that such a role could be leading or critical. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner has not sufficiently established that ' ' has a distinguished 
reputation. Documentation in the record indicates the students of' studio won awards, 
as did other dancers from other studios. Other documentation indicates that ~---~ may be 
popular in I I However, neither of these factors is a sufficient basis for establishing a 
distinguished reputation. As every participant earns an award at many of the referenced competitions, 
as well as that other awards or competitions exist outside of those referenced, we cannot conclude that 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id. 
13 For instance, the record includes documentation stating that flamenco also involves elements of music and singing. 
6 
such awards distinguish the studio. Similarly, the popularity of the studio may relate to its relatively 
new status (founded inl 2018), (ather than its reputation. Alternatively, the studio's popularity may 
relate to its location in whereas other dance studios teaching flamenco in Kazakhstan are in I I Without further information, we cannot conclude that the 1 t studio is an 
organization with a distinguished reputation.14 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Summary of Eligibility Criteria 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, original contributions, or a leading and critical role. Additionally, the Petitioner 
did not assert, nor does the record support a finding of, eligibility under criteria 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi), (ix), or (x). Although the Petitioner claims eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
for judging others' work, we need not analyze this criterion. Even if the Petitioner established 
eligibility under it, she would still be unable to establish that she is eligible under at least three of the 
ten criteria.15 Therefore, we will not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude 
that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). For the reasons 
discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person," found at https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. 
15 We reserve arguments relating to criterion 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 
(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to 
the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal 
where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2023 In Re: 25937049 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an aromatherapist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner 1s an aromatherapist who proposes to open an aromatherapy studio in ~I--~ 
Washington. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied the criteria listed below: 
• Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) ; 
• Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
• Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
• Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); and 
• Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied one criterion relating to leading or critical role for 
distinguished organizations or establishments; however, we disagree. 1 The plain language of the 
regulation requires the organizations or establishments to have a distinguished reputation, defined as 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person."2 In response to the 
Director's re uest for evidence, the Petitioner submitted evidence that she is the founder of 
1 We note that the Director did not provide any explanation for this conclusion. 
2 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited in 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
I additionj she provided copies of awards issued to I 
I _ such as the "Parents' Choice Award 2019" from I Iand the title of 
"high quality natural TCM aromatherapy product in 2020" from I I Although we 
acknowledge the awards, the Petitioner has not provided documentation to establish their significance 
such that their receipt demonstrates the distinguished reputation of the company. Without more, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that either company has a distinguished reputation as required by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
In addition, we observe that the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion regarding 
published material about the individual or provide any additional evidence on appeal. We therefore 
consider the Petitioner to have waived this criterion. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a statement, two letters of recommendation, one from a member of 
the International Services Advisory Committee (ISAC) at University I I 
I I Health and one from her publisher, and membership information regarding the United 
Kingdom's International Federation of Aromatherapists (IF A). In her statement, the Petitioner 
contends that there are "some details that need to be supplemented to facilitate" our judgement. She 
further discusses her education and experience with aromatherapy. Moreover, she asserts that she has 
been "making contributions to this industry for more than ten years, including creating training 
schools, researching and developing essential oil products and writing professional books." However, 
upon review, we conclude that the evidence does not overcome the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three of the ten criteria. 
Regarding the letter from the ISAC member, the Petitioner simply describes it as a "supporting letter" 
without any additional explanation of its significance or the criterion it addresses. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 
2013). Commensurate with that burden is the responsibility for explaining the significance of 
proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). 
The author of the letter states that the Petitioner has: 
[P]ioneered the practice of aromatherapy where she is the first to have discovered new 
practices and applications of aromatherapy as a form of natural treatment that not only 
utilizes the natural and rapid properties of essential oils, but also accurately treats 
various systems through [Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)] ideologies for fast, 
effective, and accurate effects. 
The author further states that his family member used her rhinitis cream, and it improved her 
symptoms. Moreover, the author states that he has read her books and that it has broadened his belief 
"in essential oils and the application of its natural properties as a plant-based and organic alternative 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision. that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
solutions." Even if we were to assume that the letter is intended to address the original contributions 
criterion, it does not sufficiently describe a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader 
field of aromatherapy, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in 
the specific field. The author's assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's work has been widely 
implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the 
field as a whole commensurate with an original contribution of major significance. 
With regard to the publisher's letter, the author also discusses the Petitioner's education and 
experience in aromatherapy. In addition, the author states that the Petitioner "took the lead in 
developing the cause of aromatherapy education and trainin in China." Furthermore the author 
discusses ______________the Petitioner's books entitled 
.__ ____, The author states that that "[t]hese books contain a lot of 
[the Petitioner's] painstaking efforts, including rich and exclusive clinic cases" and "[e]ach chapter 
has unique insights, which is extremely expansive and referential for fans and practitioners." 
As discussed by the Director, a scholarly article is an article that is written for learned persons in the 
field. Here, the letter does not establish that the Petitioner's books were written for learned persons. 
Instead, it appears they are a guide for using aromatherapy on children and pregnant women. 
Furthermore, the letter does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's books are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Moreover, this letter also does not establish that the Petitioner has 
made an original contribution of major significance in the field as it does not demonstrate a specific 
original contribution that has impacted the broader field of aromatherapy, provoked widespread 
commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 
Regarding the membership information from IFA, the evidence shows that there are five levels of 
membership and, in order to become a member, an individual is required to complete particular courses 
corresponding to the specific membership level and pay an annual fee. The evidence does not 
demonstrate that IF A requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for membership as 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, the evidence does not overcome 
the Director's determination that she has not met this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. We have long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter o_fPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance ofher work in aromatherapy is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
4 
national or international acclaim in the field and are one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 17, 2023 In Re: 23740321 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cybersecurity interaction designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and authorship of scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to leading or critical role and high salary, but determined that he did not satisfy 
the awards, membership, judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that he meets the original contributions criterion.3 After reviewing the 
evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 4 As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted documentation relatin to his desi n ro • ects 
(Nimble Storage, VMware, Sysdig, and Google), founding of the .__~~-----~-----' 
collaborative agreement with the World Bank, and involvement with the'-------~ Political 
Studies.5 In addition, the Petitioner provided letters of support from colleagues in the field discussing 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established the required high level of expertise for this immigrant classification). 
3 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's determinations for the awards, membership, judging, and scholarly articles 
criteria. Accordingly, we deem these issues abandoned. See Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 In response to the Director's re uest for evidence the Petitioner stated that he was abandoning his claims regarding the 
World Bank, the~------------------~Political Studies "because we acknowledged 
that they were not strong enough for this criteri[on]." 
2 
his work, as well as online articles about products offered by his employers. 6 The Director considered 
this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work 
constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with that determination. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that he provided endorsement letters from authoritative 
witnesses discussing his contributions to his employers' products. These references discussed his 
design projects at ~------------------~ but their statements do not 
demonstrate the originality of his work and its major significance in the field. As discussed below, 
the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner 
has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work for I I Dr. G-I-, Professor of Computer Science atl 
University in Italy, asserted that the Petitioner developed the user experience for the I....____ ____, 
Platform security called 'l I He stated that the Petitioner's 
"contributions consisted of a set of 'dashboard templates' which allow security administrators and 
security analysts to gain visibility into sensitive data risk across their entire organization." While Dr. 
G-I-farther explained that these "data visualizations ... gave users an easier access to an advanced 
risk summary and a much more graphical data privacy investigation tool," the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that this work has affected the field in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's projects for I I D-K-, the company's former Vice 
President of Product Operations, indicated that the Petitioner "delivered the ....I--------~ 
(NCV) creation user experience," "the multi-cloud NCV platform user experience," and an "artificial 
intelli ence AI -driven redictive anal tics visualization directly integrated with the acclaimed 
._________________ __.tool." D-K-also stated that the Petitioner provided user 
experience and graphical user interface (GUI) mockups of innovative features for public product 
releases, designed critical graphic guidelines and interactive visualizations in collaboration with 
product and engineering senior executives, and presented to C-level executives user experience 
prototypes and user experience product roadmaps for the company's product direction, but the 
Petitioner has not shown that his original work for I I has influenced the field of 
cybersecurity to the extent that it is of major significance in his field. 
In discussing the Petitioner's work forl IG-S-, the company's former Director of Product 
Management for Edge Computing and Internet of Things, asserted that the Petitioner lead the 
interaction design vision for Project Dimension (a joint effort with c=]Technologies), the 
development of the "interaction design between I I software configuration GUI and ~ 
hardware ordering GUI," and "the development of the interaction designs that would allow users to 
improve the cybersecurity posture of their regionalized Software Defined Data Center (SDDC)." 
While G-S-noted that the Petitioner's work was "significant for the company as a whole," the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that his work for I lhas been considered important at a level 
consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 These articles do not identify the Petitioner or discuss in detail the significance of his particular contributions. 
3 
With regard to the Petitioner's work forl IP-C-, the company's former Vice President ofProaduct 
stated that the Petitioner developed the user experience and user interface (UI) for its ._I------,.~-­
product "to ship all the 2019 and 2020 features, including the user experience and UI for the 
monitoring platform integration." P-C-also asserted that the Petitioner lead the design development 
of the Runtime Vulnerability Scanning UI, the regulatory compliance UI, and the cybersecurity 
activity audit UI, but the Petitioner has not shown that the aforementioned work has risen to the level 
of a contribution of major significance in the field of cybersecurity. 
As farther evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner contends on appeal that he has "offered 
numerous articles that mentioned my contributions developed during my employment withl II I' The record includes online articles, blogs, and press releases 
about his employers and their products. For example, the Petitioner submitted material from 
Searchstorage.techtarget.com, I lblog, Forbes.com/sites/moorinsights, Zdnet.com, 
Google.com, IvoBeerens.NL, SiliconAngle.com, Be-virtual.net, Thevirtuallyconnected.net, 
Diginomica.com, Businesstelegraph.co.uk, Insightaas.com, Ambidextrouspm.com, ArchitectingIT, 
Hpe.com, Mikeleahy.blog, Infrazxp.com, Globenewswire.com, Thenewstack.io, Venturebeat.com, 
Enterprisenetworkingplanet.com, Theregister.com, Techradar.com, Packetpushers.nr, Int1rma, 
Virtualizationreview.com, Containerjoumal.com, Managedmethods.com, Innovate.ie, com, 
Pmewswire.com, Commvault.com, Kasten.io, I lcom, Bloomberg.com/press-releases, 
Equinix.com/press-releases, Businesswire.com, Lenovo.com, Cloudmarketplace.oracle.com, 
IBM.com, Techzine.eu, Azuremarketplace.microsoft.com, Aws.amazon.com, Finance.yahoo.com, 
Techcrunch.com, Businessinsider.com, Cm.com, and Marketplace.redhat.com. 7 None of these 
articles mentions the Petitioner or explains how his specific original contributions to the products are 
majorly significant in the field. 8 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that the level of attention 
received by his employers' products signifies that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field of cybersecurity. 
The Petitioner farther argues that his "contributions have been widely adopted and integrated" into his 
employers' products as well as those from Oracle, IBM, HPE, and Microsoft Azure. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that his particular user experience and interface designs, which were a 
component of the aforementioned companies' product offerings, rise to the level of original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Courts have routinely affirmed our decisions 
concluding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, 
clients, or customers." Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019) 
7 The Petitioner also provided articles from Reuters.com, McKinsey.com, and Gaiiner.com, but these articles discuss 
general industry trends and not the Petitioner or the products with which he,....V1""'·a=s""'in"'"v"--'·o""-lv-'--·e'-'d"'". ------------, 
8 For instance, the blog entry from Forbes.com/sites/moorinsights, entitled .________________ _. 
.______ ____. does not identify the Petitioner or discuss in detail his particular user interface designs. The article 
concludes by stating: "We're anxious to see Hewlett Packard Enterprise evolve this product. It really does have amazing 
potential -potential that would give HPE the opportunity to stand alone among its peers." While the author describes the 
product as needing to "evolve," "an Intriguing Storage Service Offering," and having "potential," these characterizations 
are not necessarily indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. Nor does the record show if this online 
blog entry was published in Forbes magazine. Further, the evidence does not indicate whether the blog was produced by 
Forbes staff, as opposed to being an open-source site through which anyone can post an entry. For all of these reasons, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this blog constitutes an influential platform demonstrating the major significance 
of his contributions. 
4 
(upholding an agency decision that held "[a] patent is not necessarily evidence of a track record of 
success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole."); see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 
F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding agency decision that held evidence insufficient "because it 
did not show widespread replication of [the petitioner's invention]"). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original work has affected the cybersecurity industry at a level commensurate with 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final 
merits determination. 9 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 22, 2023 In Re: 2913 7920 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-I) 
immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . To qualify for this category, a petitioner 
must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" 
of recognized achievements in their field. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only two of ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant category -one 
less than required. The Director also found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's required intent to 
continue working in his field in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal and his 
following seven motions to reopen. See In Re: 27520761 (AAO May 30, 2023). The matter returns 
to us on his eighth motion to reopen. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts, supported by documentary evidence, and address "the latest 
decision in the proceeding ." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii), (2). We may grant a motion meeting these 
requirements and demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit. In contrast, we must dismiss a 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen includes evidence. But, contrary to regulations, the motion does 
not address the latest decision in the proceeding . The filing contains copies of website printouts. 
These materials purportedly support an initial evidentiary criterion requiring a potential noncitizen 
with extraordinary ability to show published materials about them in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The latest decision in the 
proceeding, however, concerned documentation for a different evidentiary criterion regarding the 
Petitioner's purported membership in associations in his field requiring outstanding achievements. 
See In Re: 27520761, at *l; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 
1 Our dismissals of the Petitioner's fourth, fifth, and sixth motions also solely considered the evidentiary requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . See In Re: 16159429 (AAO May 5, 2022); In Re: 23272884 (AAO Nov. 8, 2022); In Re: 
25690671 (AAO Feb. 13, 2023). 
The Petitioner's motion does not address the latest decision in the proceeding. We must therefore 
dismiss it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 27, 2023 In Re: 27856361 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 
464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We incorporate our prior 
decision by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the 
Petitioner's claims on motion. 1 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including judging the work of others in her 
field at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
We also addressed the Petitioner's claim that she satisfied the criterion relating to leading or critical 
roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and determined that the evidence did not satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner did not claim to meet any other criteria on appeal. 
Because we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements, we did not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advised that after a review of the record in the aggregate, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she has earned sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, as required by section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and 
be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner's 
motion to reopen focuses on our determination that she did not satisfy the leading or critical roles 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Our appellate decision noted the Petitioner's initial submission of a letter froml IDirector of 
En lish for Academic Pu oses and Continuing Education of Non-Native English Speakers atl I 
,_____ ....---_________ __,, who asserted that the Petitioner held a leading and critical role. 
~---~ confirmed the Petitioner commenced employment at I I in 2018 and was promoted in 
June 2021 to the position ofthe Coordinator ofEnglish Language Pathways program, which she describes 
as a "top position within the department." I I further indicated that due to the Petitioner's 
"innovations within the curriculum, choice of courses, and individual outreach to students," enrollment 
into her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year. 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's contention that she plays a leading and critical 
role atl I based on the letter froml land by her achievement of earning the 2022 award of 
excellence in teaching froml I We concluded that althoug~ !confirms the importance of 
the Petitioner's contributions as the coordinator ofEnglishl Language Pathways atl Ishe does not 
establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 1as a whole, such as by showing she 
influenced its overall reputation or status, or was responsible for the success of the organization. We 
determined that whilel lstated that due to the Petitioner's efforts, enrollment in her program 
increased by 30 percent from the prior year, it is not clear from the record that the Petitioner's actions 
1 While we may not individually discuss each piece of evidence the Petitioner submits with her current motion, we have 
reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
I and contributions in fact led to the increase. We noted that increase in enrollment could be caused by 
several different factors, and without more information it is impossible to correlate the increase to the 
Petitioner's actions and not some other factor, such as changes in the pandemic and students returning 
to campuses, or any other possible factors. We further noted that although I lstated that the 
Petitioner's innovations within the curriculum and choice of courses contributed to higher enrollment 
and funding for the program, she did not provide specific examples. 
We found that while the evidence indicated that the Petitioner worked on projects to enhance._!_____. 
program, and thereby supported its mission, she did not provide sufficient documentary evidence to 
show that her duties and responsibilities as a coordinator of the English Language Pathways program 
were critical to the greater organization, as claimed, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited 
tasks or projects. We also determined that the Petitioner did not sufficiently explain or demonstrate 
that her role as a coordinator for one program out of several departments in a college constitutes a 
critical or leading role for the overall organization. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner submits new documentation, including a third letter froml la new 
letter from I I President of I I and exhibits in support I Idistinguished 
reputation. The Petitioner asserts that this evidence establishes that she satisfies the leading or critical 
role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), as it "highlighted my leadership role at the college" and 
"pointed out how important and valuable my contribution is to the institution, the establishment and 
the community." 
The new letter froml Iis nearly identical to a letter provided within the Petitioner's response 
to the Director's request for evidence, with the exception of additional information in "Appendix B" 
and a new "Appendix D." In Appendix D,I !asserts that the Petitioner played a critical role 
for the department's.__ __________ __. program in having redesigned "more than 20 
courses" to gain approval for Continuing Education Equity by Design (CEED) grant funding. She 
asserts that through the Petitioner's efforts "the continuing education BBESL program also increased 
its enrollment" and "this ultimately helped the department and the college ...." I lletter, 
however, does not sufficiently demonstrate or explain how the Petitioner's having obtained approval 
for CEED grant funding for the I I program was of significant importance to the outcome of 
!activities, as claimed. 
In additionJ lletter includes, at "Appendix B," reports ofenrollment numbers for Continuing 
Education for Fall 2022 (updated) and Spring 2023 (new), showing it experienced an increase in 
enrollment for those semesters when compared to the prior year, which she credits to the Petitioner's 
"invaluable and irreplaceable expertise" as coordinator of the English Language Pathways program. 
However, this documentation dates from September 2022 to April 2023, after the filing date of the 
petition in June 2022. Although a motion to reopen allows the submission of new evidence related to 
eligibility, the Petitioner must still establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
2 We further determined that as the Petitioner had not established that she performed in a critical or leading role fore=] 
that further discussion of the college's reputation would serve no meaningful purpose. 
3 
§ 103 .2(b)(1 ). Accordingly, the submitted enrollment reports for Continuing Education for the Fall 
2022 and Spring 2023 semesters do not present new facts that warrant the reopening of this matter. 
Further, the Petitioner submits a letter from the president ot1 Iwho claims that 
the Petitioner's "role as both a director and a highly skilled instructor makes her particularly valuable 
to I t' In addition, he asserts that her "proven leadership is critical td Iwith the high 
levels of non-English speakers and immigrant populations in the community we serve," but he does 
not provide details about the criticality of the Petitioner's role for I I Instead, he discusses 
generally the work of the department, such as instruction for English language learners, English 
language for the workplace, and its partnership with the I I College of Foreign Languages in 
Japan. 
Moreover, although he notes her receipt of the 20221 IExcellence in Teaching Award, he does 
not explain how the award establishes that the Petitioner played a critical role in any success I I 
enjoyed over the course of the academic year. I lletter does not establish that the 
Petitioner's role as coordinator of the English Language Pathways program was "leading" based on 
her title, placement in the organization, or her duties, nor does he provide sufficient information to 
establish that the success of the Petitioner's work in that position was of significant importance to the 
outcome ofl Iactivities to the extent that her role was deemed critical. 
The letters considered ab ve prijarily contain bare assertions of the Petitioner's performance in a 
leading or critical role for 1 without providing specific examples of how her work as a program 
coordinator constitutes a critical or leading role for the overall organization. As stated in our prior 
decision, merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 
905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US Atty 
Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17.3 
For the reasons discussed, the information provided from the new letters from I I~-~Idoes not overcome our previous conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet the regulatory 
criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As the new evidence does not demonstrate eligibility, the motion 
to reopen will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
As discussed, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision misapplied law or USCIS 
policy based on the record at the time ofthe decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner 
contests the correctness of our prior decision with regard to the leading or critical role criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner maintains that we erred in dismissing the appeal, but she 
does not specifically identify or rebut any specific errors in our decision. A motion to reconsider must 
specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision. Cf 
3 As the documentation submitted on motion has not overcome our previous determination that Petitioner has not 
established performance in a critical or leading role forl Iwe need not consider the question of whether the 
organization has a distinguished reputations. 
4 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006).4 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal 
issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision ....") 
Here, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the motion to reconsider generally 
alleging error in the prior decision, she does not contend that we erred as a matter of law or USCIS 
policy in finding, based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, that she did not establish that 
she satisfies the leading and critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As such, the motion 
does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and the motion to reconsider must be 
dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued 
our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F .R. § 1003 .2(b )(1 ), 
which provides: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the 
prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements are fundamentally similar to those 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 28, 2023 InRe: 28819177 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who runs a business that manufactures and sells pnntmg equipment, seeks 
classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that her "main research field is printing and packaging, with an emphasis on UV­
LED [ultraviolet light-emitting diode] printing technology .... Since 2006, the petitioner has served 
as the general manager of I Ia well-known enterprise [in China] 
that specializes in R&D, production and sales of printing press related equipment." The Petitioner 
plans "to establish a company specializing in UV-LED curing technology," using some of the 
technology that she has invented and patented. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director did not adequately explain why the Petitioner's 
evidence was not sufficient to meet her burden of proof. Below, we will address the Petitioner's 
evidence and arguments in greater detail. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
relating to scholarly articles. We also conclude that she has satisfied the third numbered criterion, 
relating to published material about the individual. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought. which require outstanding achievements of their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion as "the Chief Expert Member ofI I' (GPA). The GPA's vice president stated in a letter: "we require m~em-b-er_s_o_f_t_h_e_e-xp_e_r~t 
database to have excellent attainments," and that the Petitioner "became the Chief Expert because of her 
outstanding professional knowledge and industry reputation in the research and application of UV-LED 
printing technology." 
The record does not directly establish that the Petitioner is a member ofthe GPA. A translated certificate 
from the GP A refers to the Petitioner's one-year "appointment" as "the Chief Expert of the UV process 
technology category." A translated "Notice on Calling for Expert Members" states that, in order to 
"implement the innovation-driven strategy implemented by the party and the state," the GPA was "calling 
forl !printing industry experts from relevant organizations in the province." The documents 
do not indicate that "Expert" is a class of membership in the GP A, or that the "expert database" is an 
association in its own right, rather than an advisory body for the GPA. (The word "member" in the 
translated document refers to membership in the "expe1i database," rather than membership in the GPA.) 
The materials describe an appointed position with several listed responsibilities. A separate criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) addresses a person's role within an organization. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a certificate designating her appointment as a chief expert, but no 
ce1iificate of membership or comparable documentation identifying her as a member of the GPA. The 
vice president's letter refers to the Petitioner as a "consultant expert of our association" but does not 
specify that the Petitioner is a member of the GPA. The record does not establish that the GPA's 
membership consists of individuals (such as the Petitioner) rather than companies (such asl I The 
vice president's letter indicates that 'I IGroup is a council member of the I I I t' and refers to "printing companies" as '"members" '"of the association." 
Other submitted materials are consistent with the conclusion that the GPA's members are organizations 
rather than individuals. An "Introduction to '-------------~' states that the GP A 
consists of"printing enterprises, reproduction enterprises, printing equipment and other production and 
operation organizations, and printing research and education institutions inl t' Published 
reports about meetings ofthe GPA' s member congress refer to attendees not as members, but as "member 
representatives." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner's initial evidence did not satisfy the 
requirements ofthe criterion. The Director stated that the Petitioner "may submit" sections ofthe GP A's 
"constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership for the beneficiary's level of 
membership in the association" and "the qualifications required of the reviewers on the review panel of 
the association." 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a translation ofthe GP A's by-laws, which state"[ m ]embers 
of the association are collective members." This is consistent with GPA being an association of 
organizations, rather than individual members. The Petitioner acknowledged this information but 
attempted to minimize its significance, stating: 
[D]ue to the evolving nature of the association and its continuous adaptation of its 
organizational structure and membership categories, the constitution may not always 
3 
reflect the current situation in a prompt and comprehensive manner. For example, theI Iconstitution only mentions its collective members. 
Subsequent changes to the association's structure are often communicated through other 
official documents of the association. 
The Petitioner did not submit any other official association documents to reflect such a change. The 
unsubstantiated assertions contained in the brief are not evidence and are not entitled to any evidentiary 
weight. See Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). Even then, the Petitioner did not specifically 
claim that the GPA had, in fact, changed its membership structure. The Petitioner offered only the 
general, speculative asse1iion that the GP A's governing documents "may not always" be up-to-date. The 
GPA' s by-laws do not establish individual membership, and the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of 
equal or greater weight to establish that the published by-laws have been superseded. The a1iicle 
discussing the attendance of"member representatives" at a GPA meeting dates from August 2022, which 
was less than two months before the Petitioner filed the petition. 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence such as "the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership ofthe beneficiary's level 
of membership in the association." The Director concluded that, without such evidence, the Petitioner 
had not established that her membership in the GPA meets the regulat01y requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites previously submitted evidence and maintains that her chief expert 
appointment is a qualifying membership. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not 
established that this appointment is a membership category. The record as a whole indicates that GPA 
memberships are institutional rather than individual. The Petitioner has not submitted documentary 
evidence to rebut this conclusion, and, therefore, has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner initially stated that she "has applied for at least thirteen patents and eight computer software 
copyrights," and that her "commitment to innovation has significantly impacted China's printing and 
packaging industry." The Petitioner asserted that she has contributed "to the R&D [research and 
development] and promotion ofnew UV-LED printing equipment" and "promoting energy conservation 
and environmental protection in [the] printing and packaging industry." 
Evidence that the person's work was patented, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, 
will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is ofmajor significance to the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. But evidence that the person 
developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may 
establish the significance ofthe person's original contribution to the field. Id. 
The Petitioner relies heavily on a letter from the dean ofthe School ofPrinting and Packaging Engineering 
at theI !Institute ofGraphic Communication. Such letters may provide valuable context, but they 
have less weight if they lack documentary corroboration. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). The dean provided background information about UV-LED printing, stating, for instance, 
4 
that the technique allows for faster ink drying without the use of harmful solvents. Regarding the 
Petitioner's work in particular, the dean stated: 
UV-LED light source curing technology has not been able to achieve large-scale 
commercial applications for a long time. 
To solve the above industry problem, [the Petitioner] and her team developed an LED 
device ... for curing traditional UV ink, which can instantly cure traditional UV or LED 
ink. 
The dean listed various advantages ofUV-LED printing "[c]ompared with traditional printing," but did 
not specify how many ofthese benefits originated with the Petitioner's work. Entirely new technology, 
or substantial improvements to existing technology, would tend to have greater significance than 
incremental improvements to technology that is already available. Technical details about the Petitioner's 
patents, such as the assertion that "the power supply controls the average voltage output by the thyristor, 
thereby adjusting the voltage at both ends of the UV lamp to achieve the purpose of dimming," are not 
self-explanatory with regard to their significance. 
The dean stated: 
[The Petitioner's] patented technology has undoubtedly achieved success in the printing 
and packaging industry and attracted wide attention. Many internationally renowned 
printing press manufacturers . . . were very interested in the advanced and stable 
perfomiance of I I UV-LED device and are willing to open their rights in the 
matching of this offset press, giving priority to using UV and LED curing systems of I I. .. [The Petitioner] is one ofthe pioneers in improving the printing and packaging 
industry for energy saving and environmental protection. 
The record, however, lacks documentary evidence to corroborate these general assertions and provide 
more specific information. 
The
,_______________ ___,recognized one o~ Ipatented products as "a high-
tech product." Information from the certifying entity states that, to qualify for certification, a product 
must have "great market potential, excellent economic, social and environmental benefits, and meet[] the 
requirements of sustainable development." The Petitioner did not establish that this certification meets 
the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires "major significance in the field." 
The Petitioner submitted documentation identifying five customers that had purchased equipment from 
I lbetween 2013 and 2022. The Petitioner did not establish that these sales constitute significant 
attention or commercialization at a level that indicates major significance. Also, it is not clear how much 
ofthis equipment is the Petitioner's own patented technology. A manufacturer in New Jersey stated that I l"has helped sell our UV curing lamps to [ customers in] mainland China." 
Published articles in the record describe the advantages ofl !technology, but as noted above, the 
promotional tone of these articles raises questions about their objectivity. One ofthese articles indicates 
5 
that "I IUV-LED technology has taken the lead in achieving wide application in the industry," but 
that article and others primarily discuss! Icontracts with the same five customers. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for "independent objective evidence" to establish the major significance 
of the Petitioner's original contributions. The Petitioner's response to the RFE largely repeated the 
Petitioner's initial statement with minimal revisions, and cited prior submissions. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the documentation ofpatents in the record, but concluded 
that the Petitioner had not submitted "independent and objective evidence" of the significance of her 
original conttibutions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that "the petitioner's patented technology and products are purchased 
and used by one of the leading enterprises in China's printinf machinery manufacturing field." The use 
of the Petitioner's inventions by a major client contributes to !commercial performance, but does 
not necessarily show that those inventions are ofmajor significance in the field (as opposed to benefiting ~and individual customers). 
Much ofthe evidence cited in the petition and on appeal attests to the overall benefits ofUV-LED printing 
technology. For example, a submitted article states: "the overall market size of UV-LED printing has 
exceeded RMB 2 billion in 2021." But the record does not show that the Petitioner invented UV-LED 
printing, or made significant, widely-adopted enhancements to the technology. Statistics about the 
economic and environmental benefits of the entire UV-LED printing industry do not establish the 
significance ofthe Petitioner's specific contributions to that industry. 
The Petitioner has established that she has made original contributions in her field, but has not met her 
burden ofproof to show the major significance of those contt·ibutions. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion through her position as general manager ofD and her 
appointment as a chief expert with the GP A 
The record establishes that the Petitioner's general manager position is a leading role at~I-~I The next 
question is whether! lhas a distinguished reputation. 
The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a distinguished reputation 
exists. Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation ofan organization or establishment can include 
the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted a profile of the company from the GP A's website. The translated printout in the 
record does not identify the author of the profile, and therefore we cannot determine whether it is a self­
promotional piece written by ac::=] employee. The profile, therefore, is not strong evidence ofl 
distinguished reputation. 
6 I 
The Petitioner submitted documentation showing thatl lhad won or bid on contracts with various 
customers in China, and that~ is a distributor for UV curing lamps manufactured by a company in 
New Jersey. These materials document! !business activity but do not directly establish or attest to 
the company's distinguished reputation. 
Translated certificates in the record show the following information aboutLJ 
• In 2015, I I was accredited as a 'I IScience and Technology Innovation Giant 
Ente1prise"· 
• In 2016,Obegan a two-year appointjent as "the third session council member of the China 
Printing Technology Association 1 Printing Branch"; 
• In 2017, the GPA namedl Ito a four-year term as a council member; 
• In 2017 and again in 2020, various provincial authorities namedl Ia "High-tech Enterprise," 
valid for three years; and 
• In 2018 and 2020, thel~---~IAdministration for Industry and Commerce namedc=] a 
'I I Province Enterprise of Observing Contract and Valuing Credit." 
The Petitioner did not provide indelpender evidence to establish the significance ofthese ce1tificates and 
explain how they demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for more evidence of the nature of the Petitioner's roles and the 
distinguished reputations ofthe organizations. In response, the Petitioner submittld cop es ofpreviously 
submitted materials and a translated 2022 article from Huanqiu that called 1"a well-known 
enterprise in the printing and packaging industry." The article did not elaborate farther, instead discussing 
the overall importance of "green and environment-friendly production methods" and I Ieff01is in 
that vein. 
Media coverage is one factor to consider when examining an organization's distinguished reputation. See 
generally 6 USCJS Poli? Man ual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). But while the Petitioner has submitted a small 
number of articles about 1and some of its business deals, the Petitioner did not establish the extent 
to which this level of coverage distinguishes~ from other companies in the same field. 
The Petitioner also named some of....l ___.I clients, but did not explain how these clients establish that 
I lhas a distinguished reputation. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not established the distinguished reputations 
of the organizations. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that evidence submitted in response to the RFE 
is sufficient to establish! I distinguished reputation. As discussed above, the record establishes the 
Petitioner's leading role ate=] and it identifies some ofl !clients, but the record lacks sufficient 
objective, independent evidence to show thatl I has a distinguished reputation among companies in 
its industry. 
The Petitioner also claims to have performed in a critical role for the GPA. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome ofthe organization or establishment's activities or those ofa division or department ofthe 
7 
I organization or establishment. A supporting role may be considered critical if the person's performance 
in the role is (or was) important. It is not the title ofthe person's role, but rather the person's performance 
in the role that determines whether the role is, or was, critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
With respect to the Petitioner's appointment as a chief expert for the GP A, the "Letter of Appointment" 
specified that the Petitioner had been named "the Chief Expert ofthe UV process technology category of 
" The Petitioner did not provide documentation demonstrating the~-----------~ nature and scope of the duties she had performed as a chief expert. 
The vice president of the GPA stated that the chief expert is "the highest-level member of the expert 
database" and that the Petitioner "played an essential role in promoting the growth of the [GPA]." 
Regarding the nature of that role, the official stated that the Petitioner helped member companies to 
upgrade to "environmentally friendly and energy-saving UV-LED curing printing systems." The official 
also observed thatl lsells those curing systems. The record does not demonstrate that, or explain 
how, the Petitioner's promotion of her own company's products was of significant importance to the 
outcome of the GP A's activities. Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish she had a leading or critical 
role for GPA. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for "detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the 
beneficiary's role for the organization or establishment is or was leading or critical. Details should include 
the specific tasks or accomplishments of the beneficiary as compared to others who are employed in 
similar pursuits within the field ofendeavor." In response, the Petitioner resubmitted the same letter from 
the GP A's vice president, which discussed the Petitioner's qualifications for the chief expert appointment 
but not the duties of that appointment or why the role was critical for the GP A. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the letters submitted in response to the RFE "did not provide 
the detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the beneficiary's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. Also, the letters did not explain the specific tasks or 
accomplishments of the beneficiary as compared to others who are employed in similar pursuits within 
the field of endeavor." 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes the previously submitted letter from the GP A's vice president. That letter 
indicates that the Petitioner "played an essential role in promoting the growth of the~------~ tbut the letter does not explain how the Petitioner's work as a chief expert advanced that 
goal. Instead, the letter contends that the Petitioner and I Ihave helped companies adopt new 
technology. But this assertion speaks to the Petitioner's role atl lwhich sells the technology in 
question to some of the GPA's member companies. The quoted passage from the vice president's letter 
does not explain what the Petitioner's role as a chief expert entailed or how it was critical to the GPA. 
The assertion that I Iproducts are beneficial to the GPA's member companies is not sufficient, 
because the benefit from those products is not contingent on the Petitioner's appointment as chief expert. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that her role as a chief expert was critical for the GP A, we need 
not explore the separate issue ofwhether the GP A has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a "Proof of Personal Income" document from I Iindicating that the 
Petitioner's annual salary plus bonuses was about ¥1.17 million in 2019, ¥1.36 million in 2020, and ¥2.1 
million in 2021. 
The Petitioner submitted a "Printing and Packaging Industry Salary Survey Report" for 2020, indicating 
that general managers in China with more than 10 years of experience earned average salaties ranging 
from ¥995,000 for high school graduates to ¥1.29 million for individuals with doctorates. 
The Director stated, in the RFE, that the submitted evidence was not sufficient to satisfy the regulatmy 
requirements. In response, the Petitioner submitted additional excerpts from the salary survey report, 
primarily dealing with the salaries oflower-level employees in the p1inting and packaging industry. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that "[t]he petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
compare the beneficiary's salary with others of the same position in the field." On appeal, the Petitioner 
cites previously submitted evidence and repeats the claim that her "salaty is significantly high relative to 
others working in the field." 
Also in the denial, the Director stated: "The petitioner did not submit the evidence like media rep01is of 
notably high salaries earned by others in the beneficiary's field; and list [sic] compiled by credible 
professional organization(s) of the top earners in a field." On appeal, the Petitioner protests that the 
Director introduces "new grounds" beyond the information in the RFE, and that therefore the Petitioner 
did not have an opportunity to submit such evidence. But in the RFE, the Director listed both media 
reports and lists oftop earners as evidence the Petitioner could support in response to the RFE. 
The documentation of industry averages the Petitioner submitted shows salaries only, while the figures 
for Petitioner's earnings combine salary and bonuses. These mismatched figures do not permit a direct 
comparison between the Petitioner and others in the industry, either on the basis ofbase salary alone or 
total compensation. Therefore, the evidence submitted does not show that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
9 
I (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition of her work that 
shows the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career ofacclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has patented useful inventions and developed software relating to UV-LED printing, 
and she has used this technology to run what appears to be a successful business. She has not, however, 
shown that this success has risen to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. Her 
reputation, instead, appears to be heavily concentrated inl !Province. Her appointment as a 
chief expert, for example, is with a provincial-level association. We acknowledge the assertion that 
Ihosts a disproportionate share of China's printing industry, but this does not establish 
sustained acclaim at the required national or international level. 
The Petitioner's name has appeared in a small number ofnationally published articles, but the tone of 
the articles appears to be promotional rather than journalistic. Rather than announce recent 
developments that would account for media attention, most of the articles offer general praise for the 
Petitioner, her company, and its products. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the 
person's products or promoting the person's services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the person (this includes seemingly objective content about the person in major print 
publications that the person or their employer paid for). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F .2(B)( 1 ). 1 Among the materials that the Petitioner submitted in attempt to establish that the articles 
appeared in major media is part of a report by a marketing agency, stating that one such "website 
seems to have companies who want to put their information online as their clients, and post positive 
information for them on their website." 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 We note that most of the articles are broadly similar and appeared within a short period of time immediately preceding 
the September 2022 filing of the petition. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 28, 2023 In Re: 28455766 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dressage rider and trainer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of the individual's sustained national or 
international acclaim, as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been 
recognized in the field. Section 203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). If a petitioner can show that one or more of the 
evidentiary criteria are not readily applicable to their occupation, then they may submit evidence that 
is comparable to the required evidence. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dressage rider who has been competing for more than 20 years, and who has also 
been training dressage horses and riders for several years. She intends to continue to compete in 
dressage events in the United States, as well as train horses and riders to compete in those events. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
awards in her field, and to published material about her in professional publications. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions of major 
significance to her field, and a leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation in the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that she meets 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of prizes or awards received as a 
dressage rider, particularly the 2020 USDF ~-----~and first place at the 2021 I I 
Dressage Festival, was sufficient to meet this criterion. While we agree that she meets this criterion 
as a rider, we base this conclusion on the evidence ofher receipt ofteam and individual gold and silver 
medals at the I Ichampionships in 2006 and 2007, as well as the 2007 I !trophy awarded by the United States Dressage Federation. 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several articles about her and her work as a dressage competitor that were 
published on websites serving the equestrian sports industry. Many ofthese articles, particularly those 
posted on the blog website eurodressage.com, did not list an author, and therefore did not meet the 
requirements ofthis criterion. Others noted that they were press releases, prepared by an organization 
with which the Petitioner was affiliated in order to promote the organization and its members. Such 
marketing materials are not generally considered to be published material about a petitioner. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. However, the Petitioner 
also submitted articles published on the website of Chronicles ofthe Horse, a magazine devoted to 
equestrian sports, which did include all of the requisite information. Based upon this evidence, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In their decision, the Director acknowledged that the reference letters submitted by experts and others 
in the dressage field showed that the Petitioner has been successful as a dressage trainer, but concluded 
that the letters lacked specificity regarding the originality ofher training methodology and its influence 
on the field of equestrian sports. They also noted the lack of documentary evidence in the record to 
substantiate the writer's statements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the reference letters include details concerning her dressage 
training method and its originality, and that the Director erred by not giving the letters adequate 
consideration. She highlights sections of several of the letters, including the one written bye=]I I a dressage judge. In describing the benefits and originality of the Petitioner's training 
techniquesJ Iletter in large part restates the Petitioner's own description of her training. 
Notably, the letter states that the Petitioner's techniques are original through their "linkage ofanatomy 
and biomechanics (using the science of movement) to align, balance and harmonize the rider with the 
movements and character of each rider's horse so that the horse/rider are an aligned/coordinated pair 
and by explaining how to achieve the required result so that the rider can self-sustain the correct 
movements." Whereas the Petitioner writes the following in her statement: 
The originality of my training/schooling and coaching is centered on marrying the 
science of movement (biomechanics) to the specific movement pattern of each horse 
(as no two horses are the same such that no horse/rider combination is the same) and 
3 
biomechanically aligning the rider in the saddle with the horse's specific movement 
pattern to achieve a synchronized and harmonious unit when executing dressage 
movements. 
Another letter with similar language was signed by ._I____ ___.I board member of the Dressage 
Foundation. Her letter includes the following sentence: 
What is original and highly significant and beneficial is [the Petitioner's] ability to 
simultaneously ensure, (while riders are being instructed on the execution ofthe various 
dressage movements within the "scales of training") that each horse/rider pair are 
executing the dressage movements, with the correct biomechanical/balanced alignment 
such that the movement(s) being taught are, in fact, executed properly such that when 
the test movements are aggregated the pair's performance will be optimal. 
The similarities in style and grammar in these statements are unmistakable. As a general concept, 
when a petitioner has provided affidavits from different persons that contribute to the eligibility claim, 
but the language and structure contained within the affidavits is notably similar, the trier of fact may 
treat those similarities as a basis for questioning a petitioner's claims. 1 When affidavits contain such 
similarities, it is reasonable to infer that the petitioner who submitted the notably similar documents 
is the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. Cf Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of 
Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007); Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d at 592. As a result, the letters 
possess significantly diminished probative value. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. at 376 (quoting Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). Here, the similarities 
between the Petitioner's statement and several of the reference letters, including I I and 
I I significantly reduces the evidentiary value of this evidence. 
We also note that many of the letters incorporate language from the regulations. In addition toDC==:J statement that the Petitioner's abilities are "original and highly significant,"! I 
L_jwrites that the Petitioner's "methodology is ofmajor significance in its originality." Repeating 
the language ofthe statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden ofproof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). We also note that 
originality and significance are separate requirements of this criterion and must be met separately. 
In addition, despite the Petitioner's claims, I Iletter does not provide details on how the 
Petitioner uses biomechanical concepts in her training, nor does it substantiate the claim that the use 
of biomechanical concepts in dressage training is an original contribution by the Petitioner. Rather, 
the letter describes the desired results of those training techniques, and arrives at the conclusion that 
her methodology has "accelerated the dressage learning curve particularly the progressively more 
1 See Matter ofR-K-K-. 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland. No. 19-60937, 2021 WL 5984797, at *2 
(5th Cir. Dec. 17. 2021); Surinder Singh v. Board ofImmigration Appeals. 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006); Wang v. 
Lynch. 824 F.3d 587. 592 (6th Cir. 2016); Dehonzai v. Holder. 650 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2011); Hamal v. U.S. Dep't of 
Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, WL 2338316, at *4, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
4 
complex movements in the upper dressage levels as the results are proven" without describing the 
results to which it refers. 
The reference letters all indicate that the Petitioner has the ability to draw upon her classical training 
and experience as a rider to develop an individualized training regimen suited for each horse. In 
addition, they explain that she is able to clearly communicate to dressage riders that she trains how 
their own movements and positioning affect their horse's movements. While each such training can 
be considered to be unique to that horse and rider, as is stressed by the Petitioner, the letters do not 
establish that she has created an original method oftraining that has contributed to the broader dressage 
or equestrian community. Nor do they show that the results of her training have been so impactful 
that they have been of major significance to the field. I I founder of an equestrian training 
facility and the father of one of the Petitioner's trainees, writes that several of his students, including 
his daughter, have had significant improvements in their performances and results. I I a 
rider who competes in show jumping at the international level, explains that the Petitioner has helped 
to train her horses, and that she has seen her competition results improve as a direct result. Similarly,I I an experienced equestrian who has been training with the Petitioner for six months, 
explains that the Petitioner was highly recommended to her, that the Petitioner has improved the 
conditioning of her horse, and that the Petitioner clearly explains how to im rove her riding. Beyond 
the reference letters, an article on the eurodressage.com website dated 2014 notes that the 
Petitioner coached a rider who placed fourth and sixth at a national competition in~---~ Florida. 
While this evidence shows that the Petitioner has contributed to the advancement of individual riders 
and horses under her tutelage, it does not establish that she has made a contribution of major 
significance to the overall field of equestrian sports, or more specifically dressage. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director should have considered her claim under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) that because there is no tangible proof of her training method, the reference 
letters analyzed above should be considered as comparable evidence. This argument was initially 
made in response to the Director's RFE, which states that "generally, an original contribution is 
research, techniques, inventions, or other intellectual property that the petitioner created and 
developed." While those types of documents may be submitted to show the originality of a claimed 
contribution by some petitioners, they are not applicable to all fields or all individuals seeking 
classification as individuals of extraordinary ability as the Director's statement suggests. The plain 
language of the regulations does not specify or limit the type of evidence that may be submitted in 
support of this criterion. However, for that same reason, the comparable evidence provision is itself 
not readily applicable to this criterion. Further, claims that reference letters should be accepted as 
comparable evidence, as the Petitioner does here, are generally not persuasive. We have instead 
considered those reference letters under the plain language of this criterion, as described above. 
For all of the reasons provided above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have performed in either a leading or 
critical role for an organization or establishment. Evidence of a leading role should demonstrate that 
5 
the petitioner was a leader within the organization or establishment, or a division or department 
thereof. For a critical role, the evidence must show that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is 
of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. 
Second, the petitioner must establish that the organization or establishment for which they hold or held 
a qualifying role has a distinguished reputation. This may include, but is not limited to, the evaluation 
of factors such as the size and longevity of the establishment (but not exclusively), the scale of its 
customer base, and relevant media coverage. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's role for .________ ~was leading or critical, but 
did not specify which applied to her role. The only evidence submitted in support of this aspect of the 
Petitioner's claim was a letter froml Ithe company's owner. He explains that the role played 
by the Petitioner in selecting young horses and training them for dressage competition at the rghestl 
levels is critical to the success of his company, and cites the example of one particular horse I I trained by her which was recognized as the top seven-year-old dressage horse in the United 
States. As such, we agree that the Petitioner has established that her role with I Iis ( or was) 
critical. 
Turning to the second element of this criterion, the distinguished reputation ofi Ithe 
Director determined that the evidence was insufficient. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the 
reputation ofi Ishould be judged by the success of its owner and namesakeJ I 
However, the record shows that I lis engaged not just in supporting the owner's career as 
a dressage competitor, but also offers rider and horse training and horse sales services. Therefore, its 
overall reputation in all of these activities will determine whether it has achieved distinction when 
compared to other such companies. 
Turning first to the evidence ofl Isuccess as a dressage rider, this consists of his own letter, 
pages from his company's website, and articles about him. Other than providing facts about himself 
and his company that he wishes to be considered, the letter has minimal weight in demonstrating that 
has a distinguished reputation, as reputation is the perception of others in the equestrian L...--------,-.J-----, 
sports field. writes that as a dressage competitor, he was selected to represent the U.S. at the 
2019 .______ __.Games, but was forced to withdraw after his horse sustained an injury. This is 
confirmed by an interview of him published on the website ofSidelines magazine on I I 2020. 
This and other articles confirm his wins at the Intermediate and Grand Prix levels, including national 
championships at the Intermediate level in 2019 and 2020. 
The record also shows that in addition to the success in training.______________ __.I I have also won U.S. young horse championships with other horses. In addition, he has 
coached riders that have had national I success in the Young Rider and Grand Prix divisions. The 
totality ofthis evidence shows that lenjoys a distinguished reputation in the dressage field 
at the national level. We therefore disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
6 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, so we will move 
on to the next part of the adjudication: the final merits determination. In a final merits determination, 
we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether the petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence that she meets that standard. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). 
As noted above, the Petitioner intends to remain in the United States to continue competing in dressage 
tournaments and events, while also continuing to train dressage riders and horses. In general, 
competitive athletics and coaching are not in the same area of expertise, as they rely upon different 
sets of skills. Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 917-8 (N.D. Ill. 2002). However, we acknowledge 
that many extraordinary athletes have gone on to become extraordinary coaches. Therefore, where a 
petitioner has established recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim as a coach, we may consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of 
sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
As we acknowledged above when considering the Petitioner's lesser awards as a dressage competitor, 
she attained international success when competing at the Young Rider level. Her team and individual 
awards in 2006 also led to her selection to represent Canada at the.__ _________ __.Final, 
where she finished fourth overall out of twelve international competitors. However, the record does 
not show that she has sustained the same level ofcompetition success since at the top Grand Prix level 
or in national and international competition. This evidence includes a certificate showing that the 
Petitioner was awarded with the 2020 ~-----~by the United States Dressage Federation 
"for achievement at: Intermediate I and/or Intermediate II and Grand Prix," as well as a Silver Medal 
for the same at the fourth level andl IBut the certificates are not accompanied by an 
explanation of their significance or the criteria by which they were awarded, and are thus of marginal 
evidentiary value in showing the Petitioner's standing or acclaim as a competitor in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that she has competed in over 60 dressage events since 2014, and lists 
several first place results in dressage competitions at the Grand Prix and I llevels. 
However, the record lacks documentary evidence of most of these awards, with only a few being 
mentioned in articles on equestrian sports websites. Further, even if all of the awards were supported 
by documentary evidence, the record also lacks evidence showing that these wins, individually or 
cumulatively, help to show sustained acclaim or place the Petitioner at or near the top of her field as a 
dressage competitor. To the contrary, an article from the eurodressage.com website dated I 
D2017 that reports on the 2017 I I qualifier inl !North Carolina notes the Petitioner's 
Grand Prix win, but also that the competition "was unable to draw North American top riders." 
7 I 
I Although the editor-in-chief of the eurodressage.com website writes in her letter that the Petitioner "is 
one of the best dressage riders in the history of the sport," this article from the website clearly 
undermines that assessment. We also note that while the Petitioner's win at the 201 71 
Dqualifier was also reported on other websites focused on equestrian sports, the record does not 
include media reports on any of the Petitioner's more recent claimed wins. Further, the record shows 
that the frequency of media articles reporting on her competition results drops dramatically from the 
time of her early career to more recent years, with the article noted above and others commenting on 
her absence from the top levels of competition and aspirations to greater achievements. While we 
acknowledge that the COVID-19 pandemic affected equestrian competitions as it did many other 
sports, the totality of the record does not establish that the Petitioner has enjoyed sustained acclaim at 
the national or international level as a dressage competitor, or that she is one of the small percentage 
of dressage competitors at the top of that field. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work as a dressage trainer, we have considered the reference letters 
submitted by her colleagues, employers, trainers and clients when determining the originality and 
significance of her training methods above. As we noted, this evidence was not sufficient to show that 
she has established an original method of training that has impacted or influenced the dressage or 
equestrian sports field to the required extent. In addition, the record shows that the Petitioner has 
trained riders who have gone on to have some success. Specifically,! Inoted that two of his 
own students, including his daughter, "obtained top of class scores due to [the Petitioner's] coaching." 
Others, such I I note the improvements in their horses under the 
Petitioner's training. And as previously noted, she submitted a single published article regarding one 
of her trainee's fourth and sixth place finishes in a national competition. While this evidence shows 
that her expertise is appreciated by her clients and has led to general improvements in both theirs and 
their horses dressage performance, it does not demonstrate that she has been recognized for her efforts 
as a trainer at the national or international level. 
Other evidence in the record is more specific regarding her acclaim and standing as a dressage trainer, 
particularly relating to her work atl l We acknowledge that her position with this company 
demonstrates that her expertise in dressage training has been acknowledged by her employer, an 
organization which has attained some level of distinction in the dressage community. This is 
demonstrated through the evidence of her work withl I who was ranked as a top young 
dressage horse in the United States. However, despite the submission of several articles which focus 
on the success ofl Iwe note that none of these articles mention the Petitioner and her 
contribution to his training as a dressage horse. While she has worked for several years as a trainer of 
dressage horses and riders, the evidence is insufficient to show that she has enjoyed sustained acclaim 
for this work or that she is one of the small percentage at the top of this field. 
Considering the totality of the evidence and the Petitioner's arguments on appeal, we conclude that 
she has not established that she meets the elite standards to be classified as a dressage competitor and 
trainer of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
8 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner is currently in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
Although we acknowledge that this status relates to extraordinary ability, the record of proceeding for 
the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in 
that case were the same as those in the present proceeding. Further, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Even if a service center director has approved a 
nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the 
adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 
2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 29, 2023 In Re: 28803298 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and we dismissed the subsequent 
appeal, concluding that the record did not establish the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary 
requirements through evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 
of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reconsider to instances where the 
applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, an applicant must 
not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form 
I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). The 
issue before us is whether the Petitioner established that our decision to dismiss the prior appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior decision 
by reference and will repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's 
claims on motion. 
Although the Petitioner asserted that he meets four of the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
determined he established eligibility under only two criteria. Our prior decision explained that he had 
not established eligibility under the criteria related to membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements of their members and published material about the Petitioner in major 
media. On motion, the Petitioner contends that we erred in our analysis and determination under these 
two criteria. 
A. Membership 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of its 
members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), we explained the Petitioner had not established that LIDOM 
and MLB require outstanding achievements of its members; that the Petitioner individually, as 
opposed to his team, is a member of the associations; or that recognized experts in the field judged the 
Petitioner's achievements. 
The Petitioner provided information on how LIDOM and MLB select teams for membership, but this 
does not establish that LIDOM or MLB selected the Petitioner for membership.1 Moreover, the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate how the team's managers and operation staff specifically 
selected the Petitioner as a player, which of his achievements they considered, or how the 
achievements were determined to be outstanding. On motion, Counsel states that '·although neither 
the MLB's, nor the LIDOM's bylaws specify the qualifications of their reviewers, each requires 
outstanding achievements of its members which are judged by experts." As we explained in our prior 
decision, it is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate every element of a given criterion. Counsel's 
unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 l&N Dec. 49, 51 
(BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
The Petitioner emphasizes, "the most outstanding players can enter the annual draft" for the teams that 
comprise LIDOM and that these players "must have a performance that stands out above the rest. 
They must demonstrate extraordinary talent and discipline." The Petitioner appears to suggest that 
the term "outstanding player" means that a player has outstanding achievements or that "standing out 
above the rest" and having "extraordinary talent and discipline" substantiates a finding of outstanding 
achievement. However, we conclude that these descriptions are too nebulous to determine what the 
selection requirements are for players generally or for the Petitioner specifically. We find no error in 
our prior determination that the evidence does not demonstrate the selection requirements for the 
players on the Petitioner's team or how the requirements constitute "outstanding achievements." 
Our prior decision distinguished between a team's membership in the MLB and an individual player's 
membership in the MLB. We further explained the record did not demonstrate that being a member 
of the Petitioner's team required outstanding achievements, but rather, skills and discipline. On 
1 As our decision states, the team's managers and operation staff selected the Petitioner to be a pait oftheir team. 
2 
motion, the Petitioner refers our attention to the portion o~ Iletter that states, "[o]nly 
those who can show outstanding achievements can be a member of an MLB team." The Petitioner 
contends that this language establishes his eligibility under this criterion and that we erred in not 
considering it in our prior decision. However, merely repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fed in Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. V. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). While we acknowledge I lwords, simply stating that players have outstanding 
achievements is not sufficient to establish which ofthe Petitioner's achievements were considered and 
how they were determined to be outstanding such that it establishes his eligibility under this criterion. 
B. Published Material 
Regarding published material about the Petitioner in major media under criterion 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), our decision explained that many of the submitted articles do not include the author 
or date of the material, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. On motion, the 
Petitioner asserts that editorial boards or groups of staff writers often author the material and that 
simply because an article lacks a specific author name, does not mean the article is unsigned. 
Specifically, the Petitioner points out that when an article expresses the opinion of multiple writers or 
the media outlet as a whole, such articles may be signed with only the name of the media or as 
"editorial." We acknowledge the nature of collective opinions and collaborative writing; however, 
under the regulation, providing the author and the date is not optional. Furthermore, the Petitioner did 
not provide infonnation about who among the media outlets' staff wrote the submitted articles such 
that we could determine how they would be considered authored articles. For instance, the materials 
from El Nacional (5/30/21), Diario Libre (5/28/21) and Almedio.net (5/30/21) contain no author or 
reference to editorial or staff writers, nor does the record contain sufficient information about any 
specific writers working for these media outlets. 
The Petitioner contends that our prior decision did not sufficiently consider some of the published 
materials that contain all of the regulatory elements. The Petitioner references the El Dia article byI I dated I 12022. However, our prior decision specifically referenced this 
article and explained that it is not about the Petitioner. Therefore, as explained, this article does not 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this requirement. 
The Petitioner provided numerous Twitter screenshots as examples of material pub I ished about the 
Petitioner and containing all regulatory elements. Some of the tweet screenshots contain dates, while 
others do not. Most of the tweets do not contain the name of the author, but rather only the account 
under which they were posted. As such, it is not apparent how these exam les meet all elements of 
the re ulator criteria. For man Twitter accounts such as 
,_____________________________ __. the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence to establish how they constitute major media.2 In addition and as we 
2 We acknowledge the Petitioner asserts Twitter is the major medium in which the materials are published; however, 
3 
previously explained, the tweets mention the Petitioner, but the material, which is one to three 
sentences in length, is about the team or its performance. In many cases, the tweets originate from a 
baseball team's Twitter account, which further reinforces the notion that a tweet's mention of the 
Petitioner is a detail incidental to the team or its performance as awhole. 
Regarding the YouTube videos, the Petitioner asserts that each contains a date, such as "l year ago," 
"7 months ago," and "five years ago;" however, this only provides a reference point to when a viewer 
navigated to the video to print a screenshot of it in relation to when a user posted the video. We do 
not consider this time reference to be a date. Further, we do not know what the videos are about 
because we do not have the transcripts for any of them. Therefore, the YouTube videos do not establish 
eligibility under this criterion.3 We find no error in our prior determination that still images, 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's appearances amount to 
published material about him, relating to his work. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law 
or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, 
the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
Twitter appears more akin to the format in which the material is captured, e.g. book, magazine, newspaper, television, 
radio, podcast, social network, blog spot, etc., particularly as the self-created Twitter accounts and their users disseminate 
the information to the public rather than the corporation itself, Twitter, Inc. or X Corp., posting or preapproving the content. 
3 The Petitioner contends that neither the regulations nor the policy manual requires transcripts of the videos; however, he 
has not established how screenshots of videos without transcripts have any probative value under this criterion. While a 
transcript is not a regulatory requirement, the regulation states, "evidence shall include ... any necessary translation 
(emphasis added). 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28949852 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hair stylist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference (EB-1) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a hair stylist who has participated in fashion-related competitions and performed 
work as a hair stylist in support of film productions abroad, among other things. He provided evidence 
such as a sublease for a hair stylist chair from a salon as his means to provide hair styling services to 
his customers, and he intends to continue working as a hair stylist in the United States should this 
petition be approved. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of the two evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria 
relating to published material (iii), judging (iv), and original contributions (v). He does not assert 
eligibility under the membership (ii), authorship (vi), display of work (vii), high salary (ix), or 
commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address 
these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
2 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing ofthe organization or establishment. To meet this 
criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion through his role as a guest lecturer at the Instituto 
(I-) located in Florida, and as a hair stylist for films produced byl I ~----------~ (L-) a film production studio located in Russia. The Director determined that the Petitioner met this 
criterion, however we withdraw the Director's determination for the following reasons. 
With regard to his involvement with I-, the Petitioner references letters froml l(Ms. 
M-), who is said to be employed by I-as a fashion styling professor. Ms. M-states that she invited 
the Petitioner to be a guest lecturer "on occasion" in order to share "his views and approaches to 
creative styling [which] showed the students how to 'feel the fashion,' integrating the spirit of style 
into the experience of learners on a daily basis, [ and to share] his knowledge of European fashion 
trends and the way they can be combined with each other or with other cultural influences ...." Ms. 
M-does not indicate whether the Petitioner has ever been employed by I-nor does she explain how 
his leadership and critical role contributions to I-compares to others holding positions of authority 
and responsibility within the organization. While we acknowledge that I-may enjoy a distinguished 
reputation as an international fashion school, without more, the evidence falls short in establishing 
how the Petitioner's involvement as a guest lecturer at I-translates into his performing a leading or 
critical role for the I-organization, itself. 
Turning to his activities for the L-film production studio, the Petitioner provides a letter fromc=JI l(Ms. T-), who worked with the Petitioner as an actress on films produced by L-. Ms. T-states 
that "during the Soviet era, [L-] was the second largest production branch of the Soviet film industry, 
which incorporated more than 30 film studios located across the former Soviet Union." The Petitioner 
also provided two pages from L-' s website which indicate that it is still producing films in Russia. 
However, the record does not substantiate that L-possesses a distinguished reputation as a film studio 
in the film production industry. 
Ms. T-speaks favorably of the hair styling work performed by the Petitioner in the film productions 
that they were mutually involved with, noting for instance that he "is a creative thinker in the first tum, 
[] always organized, responsible and diligent, and related well to all the actors and film crew 
members," and worked "as a hair and fashion stylist for major Russian celebrity actors at [L-]." She 
notes that she personally employed him as her own hair stylist for an appearance at an awards 
ceremony. However, the record lacks contemporaneous, documentary evidence to establish the 
Petitioner's employment, if any, by L-, nor has the Petitioner provided evidence from the L-
3 
organization itself to detail the specifics of his role and responsibilities there. Without more, we 
conclude that this evidence is of little probative value to the issue at hand. Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 376. Here, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that he 
meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that they 
have not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the 
judging of the work ofothers in the same or allied field of specialization. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, supra. 
The Director determined that the evidence provided did not adequately support the Petitioner's claim 
that he has judged the work ofothers in the field through acting as an "examinations" judge ofstudents' 
work at I-. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he previously "provided evidence ofhis invitation to 
join the panel and his active participation as a jury member." He points to Ms. M-'s May 2022 letter 
and internet materials about I-, asserting that this evidence "clearly established" the Petitioner's 
eligibility for this criterion. 
In her letter, Ms. M-explains that the Petitioner was "invited to judge the works of [f]ashion students 
at the end of their educational journey (as their final step to obtain their diploma). [He] was invited 
as a judge in February 2020 as the hair stylist expert alongside a famous professor of fashion 
photography [] and many other professional judges who were to express their opinions on the students' 
full fashion work." However, the record does not include contemporaneous evidence confirming his 
invitation to act as a judge at this or other events. Additionally, there is insufficient documentary 
evidence in the record corroborating the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others for 
I-or at events sponsored by other entities. 
Further, the submitted internet-based information about I-makes no mention of the examinations that 
the Petitioner contends he judged. Here, the record lacks evidence as to what I-'s February 2020 "full 
fashion" examinations entailed, including the criteria considered by judges in selecting winners ofthe 
examinations if the judging involved evaluating competitive entries by diploma candidates, or the 
scoring mechanisms used to otherwise determine the candidates had passed the examinations. Without 
additional probative information, we cannot determine whether judging this event entailed judging the 
work of others in the Petitioner's claimed field of expertise or an allied field. In evaluating the 
evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Matter 
cf Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. For these reasons, we conclude the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the _field for which class[fication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 
To determine whether the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language of this 
criterion, we first determine whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major media publication. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended 
audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
supra. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted articles about his work, and the circulation 
statistics for the publications where they appeared. The Director discussed the evidence and 
determined that it was insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. Based 
on our review of the record, we agree that the Petitioner has not established the articles about his work 
and accomplishments were published in professional, major trade, or major media publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in analyzing the evidence submitted under this 
criterion, noting "USCIS should focus on the circulation of the publication, its intended audience if it 
is a professional or trade publication, or the editorial influence of the media source, rather than solely 
[on] whether the publication is national in scope." Contrary to the Petitioner's assertion, the Director 
did not evaluate whether these publications enjoyed a national readership, either in her request for 
evidence (RFE) or in the denial. Rather, she asked for evidence in his RFE about the comparative 
circulation of the publications to other publications, and for additional information about the nature of 
their intended audiences. But the Petitioner did not sufficiently address these aspects, either in his 
RFE response or in the appeal brief "Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material 
line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references a 2006 article in the'.
_________ ____,' (K-P-) newspaper, 
which discusses among other things, the Petitioner's first place showing in a hairstyling competition. 
The documentation included evidence reflecting a 26,000-copy circulation for K-P-in that year. In 
response to the Director's RFE, he also submitted material from of K-P-'s website which identifies 
the number of digital visits to its website in 2022, 16 years after the article was published. Similarly, 
he points to another 2006 article published in thel l{T-P-) newspaper which discusses 
the Petitioner's competitive achievements as a member of a college team. T-P-had a circulation of 
3,500 at that time and the Petitioner also provided evidence of T-P-'s 2022 website visit numbers. 
We conclude this evidence does not sufficiently illustrate that the level ofcirculation for either ofthese 
publications in 2006 was indicative of a major media publication, nor does it establish the intended 
audience of these publications. Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that these newspapers 
constitute qualifying publications in order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also references a previously submitted un-dated article that appeared inl l(M­
M-). During this interview, the Petitioner discusses the hair stylist competitions that he participated 
5 
in during the roughly six-year time period from 2006 to 2011. In the article, he shares that he no 
longer competes in such contests but still enjoys working in the "Art" style. The limited information 
in the record about M-M-suggests that it is an internet-based Russian language periodical published 
in Florida, with a viewership of less than 5,000 visits a month. Without more, this material does not 
show that this article appeared in a qualifying publication. Chawathe, supra. 
This evidentiary criterion has not been met. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v) 
cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this remaining 
issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. l O(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 petition. Although 
USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the 
prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated 
based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories 
have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability 
in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). 
But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajf'd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while the Petitioner previously 
achieved some success as a hair stylist, the record does not support a finding that he has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28511240 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a big data center consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, the record did not establish 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the top of their field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner seeks to work as a big data center consultant in the United States. The Director 
concluded that the provided evidence sufficed to meet three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 1: 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• (viii) Performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with 
distinguished reputations. 
Because the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to conduct a final 
merits determination as described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Upon examining the petition in 
its entirety, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's documentation did not establish that he had 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements had been recognized in his field 
of expertise, such that he was one of that small percentage who had risen to the very top of his field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (describing considerations for the 
final merits analysis). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief stating that the Director erred in law and fact and failed to 
consider the totality of the evidence in their analysis. Upon review of the entire record, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that he is one of the few who 
has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. The evidence indicates that the Petitioner has been 
responsible for the construction, operations, and maintenance of financial industry data centers which 
handle transactions of significant worth. The record also includes extensive documentation of the 
Petitioner's national recognition as an expert in his field, including his appointment to and leadership 
of various groups that set national technological standards for China. The totality of the record, 
including the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition, establishes that the Petitioner is one 
of a small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor and that he has the required sustained 
acclaim. Id. 
1 The evidence does not indicate, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
Finally, the record indicates that the Petitioner intends to enter the United States to continue to work 
in his field of expertise and that his entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit 
the United States. As such, he has established his eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28580526 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a swimmer and multisport athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria required for eligibility . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The sole issue on appeal is whether the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In the underlying case, the Petitioner stated that he meets the 
following criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii) Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media; and 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the criteria for lesser awards and published material, 2 
but not those for membership in associations or original contributions. Since the Petitioner only met 
two of the required three initial evidentiary criteria, the Director denied the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter3 stating that his Master of Sports of Ukraine certificate was 
incorrectly considered by the Director as a prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) rather than 
as proof ofhis membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements oftheir members under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).4 According to the appeal statement, this certificate "serves as a document 
showing the proof of association with the Ukrainian Swimming Federation (USF), National Olympic 
Committee of Ukraine (NOC), and Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine ..." and as "proof of 
outstanding achievements as a member of the association in the field for which classification is 
sought." 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires a showing that the Petitioner is a member of an 
association, that this association is in his field of expertise, that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, and that these achievements are judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. Contrary to the Petitioner's statement on appeal, the 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not indicate, that he has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
2 The record supports a finding that the Petitioner meets these two criteria. 
3 The Petitioner stated on Form T-129B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that he would submit a brief and/or additional 
evidence to the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing his appeal. To date, we have not received a brief or additional 
evidence, and so will base our decision on the provided appeal statement and the underlying record of proceedings. 
4 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) for 
original contributions of major significance to his field. As such, we consider the issue to be waived. See, e.g.. Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (finding 
that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived)). 
2 
regulation does not require him to have outstanding achievements while being a member of an 
association in his field. Instead, it requires documentation showing that the association in question 
required outstanding achievements for him to become a member of it in the first place. The Petitioner 
has not made such a showing in this case. 
The record includes extensive documentation regarding the Ukrainian Unified Sports Classification 
system, which awards various titles and degrees based on differing levels of athletic achievement. For 
Olympic sports such as swimming, the highest-ranked titles in this system are, in descending order, 
Honored Master of Sports, which "is awarded to athletes of the highest category," Master of Sports 
International Class, and Master of Sports of Ukraine, which is the Petitioner's title. The latter two 
titles are awarded to athletes "for their compliance with qualifying norms," which vary by sport. In 
the sport of swimming, the Master of Sports International Class is awarded for placing highly in 
international competitions such as the Olympics and world championships, while the Master of Sports 
of Ukraine is awarded for placing highly in Ukrainian national competitions at the junior or senior 
level. Such competitions must be adjudicated by judges "of no lower than the first category." 
As noted by the Director, there is no indication in the record that the title ofMaster of Sports ofUkraine 
constitutes membership in an association. While the Ministry of Youth and Sports awards this title, 
the documentation provided does not state that this title grants athletes membership in the ministry. 
Similarly, the documentation does not state that a Master of Sports of Ukraine title constitutes 
membership in the Ukrainian NOC or USF. Instead, it states that this is an honorary title awarded by 
the Ukrainian government for certain levels of athletic achievement. 
Furthermore, even if the Master of Sports of Ukraine title grants membership in these organizations, 
which the record does not support, the Petitioner still has not established eligibility for this criterion. 
Because the record does not include documentation of the membership requirements of the relevant 
organizations, it does not establish that outstanding achievements in the field of swimming are a 
prerequisite for entry. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he qualifies for 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence ofeither a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals are at the very top 
of their respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of his success in Ukrainian national swimming competitions, much of it at the junior 
level, approximately ten years prior to when the visa petition was filed. Since then, the Petitioner has 
competed at the collegiate level in the United States, qualifying for the 2014 National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA) Division II championships and earning NCAA All-American honors in 
3 
I 2014 by finishin] in 15th place i~ thel !individual medley. He also qualified for the 2017 
Championship,) where he took 12th place. However, the vast majority of his press 
coverage concerns his long-distance swim in thel lin 2011, and he has not otherwise 
established that his achievements have translated to a level of recognition that constitutes sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress for this visa classification. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, pt. 1, at 59 (1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 6739; section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of his field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The petition 
will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 Aquathlon is a multisport competition consisting of swimming and running segments. World Triathlon, Aquathlon, 
https ://www.triathlon.org/mul tisports/ aquathlon. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 30, 2023 In Re: 28580471 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a software engineer and developer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a software engineer and developer, provided evidence to establish his eligibility under 
seven of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(v), (viii), and (ix). 1 The Director 
concluded he met the judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and we agree. On appeal, the 
Petitioner limits his claims to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) (ii), (iii), (viii) and (ix). 2 
Evidence ofmembership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(ii) 
The Petitioner relies on his membership inl Ito satisfy this criterion. The Director concluded that 
..____ _.I is a networking site created to connect companies that contract their work with potential 
freelancing software engineers rather than a professional association, and that the evidence was 
insufficient to show that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that I lis "an elite network for the world's best" software 
developer talents, servilg morel than 10,000 clients, including Fortune 500 companies. Furthermore, 
he argues that because gets more than 100,000 applications and uses a rigorous selection 
process in which less than three percent of applicants are chosen, the organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. 
1 As the Petitioner did not claim to meet the remaining criteria , we will not address them here. 
2 We, therefore, consider the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v) to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)) (standing for the 
proposition that an issue not raised on appeal is waived.) 
2 
I The Petitioner provided an article about I I founder titled, "Dropout turned entrepreneur helps 
find talent amid engineer squeeze," explaining that he founded the company to create a "network that 
connects fl the wlorld's top talent with tech companies globally, on demand." He goes on to explainl 
that with he has created a "cloudl Iwhere the talent caliber is that of1 
lor even Israeli talent, but it is virtual." Furthermore, he explains that he aims through his 
company to match employers to those talented "engineers ... who live in a small city ... [and] allow[] 
them to stay at home but get the big jobs anyway." In essence,! lis an employment agency and 
the Petitioner has not established that such an agency, regardless of the caliber of the talent, qualifies 
as a professional association. 3 
According to the Petitioner,! I"[ c ]andidates must be able to read, write, and speak English 
extremely well" and be "passionate and driven individuals who are hands-on and folly engaged in 
their work." They "are then assessed for technical knowledge and problem-solvTg skills, and only 
candidates with 'exceptional results' are accepted." While we acknowledge that 1selection 
process appears to be strenuous and that the company is attracting high skilled information technology 
(IT) professionals, it is insufficient to establish that I I selection process requires "outstanding 
achievements of their members." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. The Petitioner 
provides his I Iprofile which emphasizes his years of experience, portfolio, location, and specifies 
the multiple IT languages and technologies he uses. While the Petitioner's skillset is extensive and 
impressive, I I profile does not highlight any "outstanding achievements" of his or appear to 
require any particular achievements beyond his selection and marketable job skills for employment in 
the IT field. Additionally, because the nature of the Petitioner's relationship with I lis that of an 
agent-talent, and not as a "member" in a professional association, the evidence is insufficient to meet 
the plain language of the criterion. Id. 
We note that although the Petitioner's selection byl lis not sufficient to meet this criterion, his 
selection could be considered in a final merits determination under the second step in Kazarian 's 
analytical framework, where we consider whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Evidence of published material about the individual in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for which 
class[fication is sought. Such evidence must include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the online news article appearing inl lmeets this criterion 
because the article was about him andl I ualifies as ma·or media. We acknowled e that this 
article 
is about the Petitioner. However, the article does not meet the plain language of ~------~ the regulation, which requires that the published material include the title, date, and author of the 
material. See 8 CFR § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). While the article has a date and title, there is no identified 
author. 
3 For example, a scientific society dedicated to artificial intelligence, would likely qualify as a professional association. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 2.B(l)(criterion 2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
Evidence that the person has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3 )(ix) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to others working in the field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 2.B(l )( criterion 9), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-rnanual. Furthermore, relevant caselaw has confirmed that "in relation 
to others in the field" should be interpreted as allowing comparisons to those employed in the same 
occupation at a similar level. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensernen). 
The Petitioner asserts that his 2022 wages of $144,800 (which is equivalent to 25,629,600 Argentine 
pesos) as a consultaT is higl in relation to other IT developers in Argentina. He provides an online 
article published on .corn, which cites to a report published by the Ministry of Economic 
Development and Production for the city of1 Istating that in Argentina, the average salary 
for IT developers in general is 315,612 Argentine pesos and the market average is 209,309 Argentine 
pesos. Although the article cites to salary information from a government report, the report itself has 
not been provided, and therefore, we are unable to ascertain the basis for the salary information, its 
validity, and the specific occupation(s) it covers. Without this relevant information, the evidence 
remains insufficient to meet this criterion. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Evidence that the person has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding this criterion 
because he has not demonstrated his eligibility under at least two other criteria and is therefore unable 
to reach the requisite minimum of at least three criteria under step one of Kazarian 's analytical 
framework. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to 
make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
4 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 27917006 Date: OCT. 2, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal concluding that he did not specifically 
identify any erroneous conclusion or law or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision as a basis for 
the appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our decision summarily dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we stated that his submission did not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the Director's decision. 
Further, while the Petitioner indicated that a brief and/or additional evidence would be submitted to 
the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal, the record did not show that he submitted those 
materials within that period. An officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any 
appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l)(v). 
As noted above, review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse decision. 
Accordingly, we examine any new facts and arguments to the extent that they pertain to our summary 
dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal. Thus, the issue before us is whether we properly found that the 
Petitioner's appeal met the applicable requirements for summary dismissal under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
On motion, the Petitioner provides additional evidence (pay stubs and a letter of support from his 
employer) addressing the Director's determination regarding his eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but he does 
not address our summary dismissal of the appeal. 1 He offers no new evidence or facts on motion to 
overcome the stated grounds for our summary dismissal decision. Moreover, he does not contend that 
our appellate decision was based on an incorrect application of law or users policy or that it was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts relevant to our summary dismissal that would warrant 
reopening of the proceedings, nor has he shown that we erred as a matter of law or users policy. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration of our appellate decision. 
Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore 
remains dismissed, and his underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 This evidence relates to the merits of the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. His opportunity 
to contest the Director's denial decision on the merits of his extraordinary ability claim was on appeal. Absent new facts 
or evidence to change the outcome of our summary dismissal of the appeal, we need not render a determination on the 
merits of the underlying petition here. 
2 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 28364074 Date: OCT. 2, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that he "has made an original business-related contribution of major significance 
to the field of Enterprise Resource Planning -Business Management Software." He further indicated 
that he intends "to continue working in the field ofERP -Business Management Software and develop 
new programs and software to improve client operations." The Petitioner did not assert that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and 
the Director found that the record does not support the conclusion; therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner stated that he 
satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(v), (viii)-(ix). However, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner satisfied only the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the record supports the 
Director's conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(v) and (ix), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). For 
the reasons addressed below, we conclude that the record does not satisfy at least three of the 10 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 'sJ participation, either individually or on a panel, as a 
judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains "certificates from the I foundation for 
Women thanking him for his participation as a mentor the programs [sic] in 2017 and 2019." The 
Director also acknowledged that the record contains "a certificate from I lthanking him for 
supporting its Diversity Externship." However, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) because it does not establish that his role as a mentor acted 
"as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field," as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "the meaning of the word 'Judge' or 'Judging' ... is broad 
enough to include actions by people who have not been expressly named a 'judge' or 'reviewer' for a 
specific event or activity." The Petitioner then reiterates information in the record about his mentor 
2 
"role at thel IFoundation." 1 The record does not support the Petitioner's assertion in the 
record that his role as mentor for the I IFoundation for Women satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted 
an undated, two-page document titled 'The Role of the Mentor," bearing the I !Foundation 
for Women logo on both pages. In relevant part, the I !Foundation for Women document 
states that a mentor "support[ s] their mentee to articulate goals . . . . A mentor listens to their mentee 
and provides them with the opportunity to evaluate their own progress" (emphasis added). Although 
"a mentor gives their mentee an opportunity to reflect on where they are and what progress they are 
making in their entrepreneurial journey [ and] offers perspective to their mentee, [a] mentor should not 
offer solutions; instead, they should provide support to bring out their mentee 's wisdom" (emphasis 
added). 
Although we acknowledge that not all those who judge the work of others bear the title of 'judge," 
nevertheless, a role defined by providing others "the opportunity to evaluate their own progress" and 
providing support for others to bring out their own wisdom is inconsistent with the plain-language 
meaning of the IJhrase 'judge of the work of others," provided at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Thus, 
thel Foundation for Women's document in the record does not support the conclusion that 
the Petitioner's role as mentor for that organization was in the capacity ofa judge ofthe work ofothers, 
as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record does not satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's} original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance to the field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner "submitted evidence of the patent [ for an artificial 
intelligence-based chat bot platform] which lists him as the first inventor." However, the Director 
noted that "the issuance ofa patent, by itself: does not verify the significance ofthe innovation patented 
because the patent's significance is not evaluated during the application process." The Director 
observed that the record does not establish how the Petitioner's chat bot platform "demonstrates the 
major significance of his contribution in the field," as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the following evidence in the record satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v): "an article published byl lin 2018 detailing the sale of the product 
and the product's impact on the client," along with a "letter from the representative ofI 
client,I Itestifying to the tremendous impact and value that the company gained by 
purchasing the [ chat bot platform]" and evidence of contracts between I 
The Petitioner does not establish on appeal that his contributions are of major significance to the field. 
Although the documents address how the chat bot platform may be significant to IIthey do not address how the chat bot platform may be significant to the broader field of 
enterprise resource planning (ERP), or indeed how it amounts to "major significance to the field," as 
1 The Petitioner did not address the Director's conclusion regarding thel~_~lcertificate on appeal and. thus. he has 
waived that issue. I 
I 
I 
3 I 
required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), beyond one company and one of its clients. On 
the contrary, the Petitioner acknowledged that he "invented his chatbot around the same time Apple 
Siri, IBM Watson[,] Google Assistant[,] Microsoft Cortana[,] and Amazon Alexa became prevalent." 
However, the record does not reconcile how the Petitioner's chat bot platform used by a single client 
is of major significance to the field of ERP-or any other particular field-given numerous other, 
prevalent chat bot platforms developed "around the same time." Because the record does not establish 
how the Petitioner's contribution is of major significance to the field, it does not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We need not determine whether the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) because, 
even if it did, the record would not satisfy at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record 
in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2023 In Re: 28156055 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The implementing regulation further states that the term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). It also sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, 
a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and commercial success). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been working as a fashion model since 2015. She is currently represented bye=] 
~---___.I and has attained 0-1 nonimmigrant status in this occupation. Her modeling experience 
includes print and commercial work, with appearances in locations such asl I 
andl Imagazine covers and editorial shoots, and commercial and promotional work. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, she asserted that she met four ofthe regulatory criteria. The 
Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the high remuneration requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with published material (iii), 
leading or critical role (viii), or artistic display (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses her eligibility for the three criteria that the Director concluded that 
she did not meet. However, in the proceeding before the Director and now on appeal, she does not 
assert (and the record does not establish) that she meets the criteria relating to awards (i), membership 
(ii), judging (iv), significant original contributions (v), scholarly articles (vi), or commercial success 
(x). Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not them farther. See, e.g., Matter ofM­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
A. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard by disregarding her claim that she has established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability through an "alternative argument" in which she contends "the 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) factors would not readily apply [to her occupation because of] the age old argument that 
[a fashion model] is basically a replaceable object, who [is] merely in a fashion publication or fashion 
show to highlight the work of the brand and/or the fashion designer." 
She asserts that she "is a model ofextraordinary ability under 'the final merits determination,' 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) factors, or no factors." We have carefully considered the Petitioner's assertions and 
conclude that her reliance upon this "alternative argument" is misplaced. 
2 
To begin with, it appears that the Petitioner is asking us to ignore the regulatory requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) which provides that she must demonstrate international recognition of her 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), 
or in the alternative that she has satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We lack the authority to waive or disregard any of the Act's requirements, as 
implemented by regulation. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 695 (1974) ("So long as this 
regulation is extant it has the force of law."). Immigration regulations carry the force and effect of 
law. United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260,265 (1954). 
Further, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if 
they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to 
their occupation, which in this case involves performing the work of a fashion model. While the 
Petitioner suggests that the regulatory criteria "may not" apply to her occupation, she does not discuss 
for instance, why the criteria relating to judging, awards, significant original contributions, or 
commercial success is inapplicable to the fashion model occupation. 
Also, contrary to the Petitioner's contention that she "is a model of extraordinary ability under 'the final 
merits determination"' regardless of whether she meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we only decide whether a petitioner received sustained national or international acclaim 
in her field of endeavor in a final merits determination after we have determined she has garnered a 
major, internationally recognized award, or has satisfied at least three of the criteria. See Kazarian 
596 F.3d at 1115; 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part­
f-chapter-2. For all of these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner's reliance on the comparable 
evidence clause at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) as an acceptable "alternative" to meeting at least three of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) prior to USCIS conducting a final merits determination is 
without merit. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion's requirements, she must meet at least two more 
within this first procedural step of the adjudication. On appeal, the Petitioner relies on previous 
arguments the Director considered in denying the petition. After considering all the evidence in the 
record, we conclude she has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. While we may not discuss 
every document submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to determine whether a petitioner's evidence meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion, we examine the evidence and decide whether the published material in the record is related 
to the person and the person's work in the field. The published material should be about the person, 
relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's 
work or another organization and that organization's work. 
3 
Any materials the pet1t10ner submits must demonstrate the value of the person's work and 
contributions and must not be solely focused on the employer or organization that the person is 
associated with. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling products or promoting the 
person's services are not generally considered to be published material about the person (this includes 
seemingly objective content about the petitioner in major print publications that the petitioner or the 
petitioner's employer paid for). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. 
In denying the petition, the Director expressed concern that the Petitioner offered "self-manufactured 
evidence that was not objective or probative" in support of her eligibility for this criterion. 
Specifically, he noted that the Petitioner had provided copies of "digitized material, possibly scanned 
and some altered with handwriting on the copies." The Director also concluded that as some of the 
submitted material did not mention the Petitioner, it did not meet the plain language requirements of 
the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's conclusions about the probative value ofher evidence, 
pointing to the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l ), which provides in pertinent 
part: "[i]n general, ordinary legible photocopies of [evidence] will be acceptable for initial filing and 
approval." She contends that the Director erred in "rejecting our scans of [the Petitioner's] original 
appearances in magazines." 
In the initial filing, the Petitioner provided copies of her modeling photographs that appeared to be 
pasted into a digitized document from another source, accompanied by text that she added alongside 
the photos to indicate the date the picture was published, the media that published it, and the names of 
the individuals credits with the work involved in creating the photos, such as the model(s), 
photographer, stylist, hair stylist, and makeup artists. The Petitioner also noted: 
[I]n submitting the evidence in this section, we genuinely feel that [English] 
translations, given the extremely small amount of text in these [f]ashion [e]ditorial 
proofs (they're all about the pictures, after all), were patently unnecessary. As such we 
did not include translations, because we did not deem them to be "necessary" pursuant 
to the language of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) discussing his concerns about this material. He 
asked that the Petitioner submit evidence that comports with the plain language requirements outlined 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), which outlines the requirements for 
English translations offoreign language documents. In response, the Petitioner submitted photocopies 
of the magazine pages that included her modeling photos as well as covers of the magazine issues that 
they appeared in, along with pages that provided the "credits" for the photoshoot -which identified 
the date, location, and parties involved in the production. She provided similar information for other 
published materials that she performed modeling services for, such as her work as a model for 
advertisements ultimately posted on billboards. Additionally, she provided certified English 
translations for the materials that were published in a language other than English. 
Considering the evidence submitted in the RFE response, we conclude that the submitted materials 
partially meet the plain language requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) in that they supply the 
title, date, and author of the published material, and are accompanied by acceptable certified English 
4 
translations. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's conclusion in the denial that the Petitioner's 
evidence was largely limited to "self-manufactured" documentation. 
However, based on our review of the record we agree with the Director that the documentation 
submitted does not ultimately meet the plain language requirements of the criterion. The record 
reflects that some of the magazines that published the Petitioner's modelinj photographs qualify as 
"major trade publications, or major media," (e.g.,I I[V-],I [C-],I lfM-], 
and I I[H-]). But the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to show that this 
published material is about her and specifically relates to her work in the field of fashion modeling. 
For instance, H-published a magazine issue which contains an article featurin ictures of the 
Petitioner modelin clothin and fashion accessories. The title of the article is 
.__________________ ____. The article includes several pages of photographs of 
the Petitioner modeling clothing and accessories from various fashion houses. One such page is 
entitled .____________ __, and contains a photograph of the Petitioner modeling a pink 
dress, and the underlying caption identifies the companies that designed her dress, shoes, and jewelry. 
The other pages are similarly captioned with a fashion theme, and the names of the companies that 
designed the products that the Petitioner is wearing. 
Likewise, the Petitioner submitted copies of pages from V-magazine which contains her modeling 
photos. According to the English translation, one of her photos was captioned: "[ s ]lant shoulder top 
with gathered tie waistband and tight skirt in the same color, ornamented with splendid geometric 
earrings to outline feminine curves and personality. Dangling earrings [designer's name,]. Off 
shoulder top [designer's name]." While the Petitioner is "credited" as being the model in the photos 
in the "credits" page, the article does not otherwise discuss or mention the Petitioner or her work as a 
fashion model. 
We conclude that these magazine articles and similar articles such as those that appeared in C-and M­
magazines were published for the purpose of reporting on current fashion trends and marketing 
designer clothing for purchase by retail establishments and the public. While the Petitioner provided 
her modeling services as part of the creation of this published material, the published content is not 
focused on her and her work in the field. As noted above, marketing materials created for the purpose 
of selling products or promoting a person's services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the person. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that USCIS holds to an "antiquated and superficial argument that [the 
fashion model] is basically a folly replaceable object, whose merely in a fashion publication or fashion 
show to highlight the work of the brand and/or the fashion designer." She asserts that the Director 
overlooked the caliber of the photographers who have taken her modeling photos, and the stature of 
the fashion magazines that have published her photographs in a way that implies that these factors are 
part of this criterion's plain language requirements when they are is not. But we must adhere to the 
criterion's requirements and to agency policy in evaluating whether the evidence submitted satisfies 
the criterion. Those requirements specify, among other things, that the published material must be 
about the Petitioner and the content must relate to the Petitioner's work in the field. Here, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence or argument sufficient to overcome our conclusion that the 
5 
evidence presented constitutes articles focused on fashion trends, or marketing and press materials 
created for the ultimate purpose of selling or reviewing products, not published material about her and 
her work in the field as required by the criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts "in the alternative" on appeal that this criterion is not applicable to the 
fashion model occupation, even though she has sought to establish her eligibility for it as a fashion 
model throughout this proceeding. She maintains that she has presented "evidence in fair satisfaction" 
of this and other criterion while at the same time indicating the "8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) factors might 
not 'readily apply' to a model's occupation." She asks that we consider the evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion as part of a "final merits determination" under the comparable provisions at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), disregarding whether or not it applies to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We incorporate our previous discussion explaining why the Petitioner has not justified her reliance on 
the comparable evidence clause at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) as an acceptable "alternative" to meeting at 
least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) prior to USCIS conducting a final merits 
determination under this and the other criterion analyzed in this decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the evidence that she provided constitutes published material about her according to the plain 
language of this criterion. This criterion is not met. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. In addition, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate the organization or establishment, or the department or 
division for which she holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 
In the evidence before the Director, the Petitioner contended she qualifies for this criterion based in 
part because E-, a fashion magazine, hired a well-established photographer (Q-) for a photo shoot 
focused on "[B-'s] latest 1945 bag" in which the Petitioner hired to provide services as a fashion 
model. The Petitioner provided information about Q-and asserts that E-and Q-"can work with anyone 
they want," suggesting that her participation in the production was critical to its success. Specifically, 
the Petitioner alleged that by participating in this photoshoot, she played a critical role for the handbag 
designer, the magazine in which this material was published, and the photographer who took the 
pictures. The Director denied the petition, in part, noting that the Petitioner is a self-employed fashion 
model who negotiates temporary contractual work in the occupation, and that the record did not 
demonstrate that she has held leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to the fashion brands that she has performed modeling work for, but 
the evidence provided falls short in establishing, for example, how the Petitioner's involvement in a 
photoshoot for a marketing campaign that featured B-' s new handbags translates into her performing 
a leading or critical role for E-magazine or B-, the fashion house that designed the advertised products. 
The Petitioner provided copies of the photos taken during this and other photoshoots, and evidence 
that she was credited as the model in these marketing campaigns. The Petitioner posits "it would seem 
6 
that a model in a top [f]ashion magazine couldn't help but be "critical" to not only the top fashion 
magazine, but also the brands they are modeling," but she did not provide evidence to substantiate and 
explain how her claimed leadership and critical role contributions for E-and B-compares to others 
who are holding positions of authority and responsibility within these organizations. Notably, she has 
not provided supporting documentary evidence from E-or B-to substantiate that her involvement with 
these organizations was either leading or critical to them. 
As discussed, the Petitioner also looks to her involvement as a fashion model in marketing campaigns 
for other fashion designers, which were published in various magazines. While the Petitioner asserts 
that the significance of this evidence was not given sufficient weight by the Director, without more, 
we agree with the Director that the evidence is insufficient to substantiate her assertions. In evaluating 
the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. This criterion is not met. 
C. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the two evidentiary criteria discussed above. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the one remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) cannot 
change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this remaining issue. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
D. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved 0-1 pet1t10n, a 
classification for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 
0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, 
definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. For instance, the "Extraordinary ability in 
the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But 
in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajfd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
Petitioner has achieved success as an international fashion model, the record does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 5, 2023 In Re: 26293166 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. In addition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not establish her intent to continue to 
work in her area of extraordinary ability in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner met three of the claimed evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not show she garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and her achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise, demonstrating she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues she satisfies additional criteria, and her evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already 
shown she fulfills the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the 
requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
international acclaim, 2 she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's earlier background, according to the initial cover letter: 
. . . In 1987, she entered music school named after I I and 
graduated in 1994, the class of violin. In 1986 she sang in 1 I Junior Ensemble. 
From 1995 to 1997 she was a singer at the I /band. From 1997 to 2003, [the 
Petitioner] worked as a vocalist at the I _Theater of Armenia, where she 
worked as a vocal teacher from 2001 to 2002. 
In 2005, [the Petitioner] entered the~--------------~and 
graduated in 2009 receiving bachelor's degree in in [sic] the field ofVocal Art, Variety­
Jazz Singing. In 2010, [the Petitioner] received master's degree froml I 
~---------~in Musical Art, Singing-Variety-Jazz Singing. The same ~ started her postgraduate studies again at the~-----------~ 
L___J and graduated with honors in 2012. [The Petitioner] received her Postgraduate 
Certificate on September 28, 2012, during her solo concert atl !Sports 
and Concerts Complex i~ !Armenia .... Since 2014, [the Petitioner] works 
as a Lecturer at Jazz and Pop Department of Vocal-Theory F acuity ofl I 
As discussed farther below, the Petitioner has garnered awards, received media coverage, served on 
panels for music contests, been praised by others in the field, and performed at concert venues while 
earning income from her shows. However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not shown that she has risen to that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be 
set for aliens ofextraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented a career that meets this 
very high standard. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictiona,y's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting her receipt of about two dozen awards from 2003 to 2019. 
Although the awards may show some recognition of her work, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
they indicate that she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). While the Petitioner submitted accompanying articles 
reporting on the winners, the Petitioner did not establish that she received awards indicative of the 
upper echelon in the field. Rather, based on the documentation, the majority of the awards were 
recently established or created, such as her receipt of the "Revelation of the Year" and "Hit of the 
Year" at the First National Music Awards in I I Armenia. In fact, according to the article from 
aravot.am, "almost all the participants were given something, probably not to celebrate the New Year 
offended." Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her awards place her among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered about three dozen articles covering 2006 -2018. 
Again, while the published material indicates some attention to her and her work, the Petitioner did 
not establish that such reporting is consistent with a level ofsuccess consistent with being among "that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner, for instance, did not show how her limited media coverage, averaging about 2 - 3 
articles per year, compares to other singers among the very top of the field. Here, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how her press coverage reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very 
high standard ... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner presented evidence showing she participated on the jury for ~--------~ on 
Armenia TV, as well as a judge for three student festivals/contests. Here, the Petitioner's judging 
experience involves evaluating the work of amateurs and aspiring singers rather than nationally or 
internationally renowned artists. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that these evaluations 
contribute to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. She did not show, for example, how her experience in evaluating aspiring singers and 
students compares to others at the very top of the field. Without evidence that sets her apart from 
others in the field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of reviewing or judging 
recognized, acclaimed singers or experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that her judging 
experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
We note here that the Petitioner provided recommendation letters praising her for her talents, skills, 
and abilities. For instance,~------~opined on the Petitioner's "unique velvety voice and 
exceptional melismatic singing." Although the letters commend the Petitioner on her songs, they do 
not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that she is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among the upper echelon or that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Further, the letters do not establish that she has 
4 
made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to the display of her work the Petitioner submitted screenshots and___._.____._____, 
performing at various venues, such as California· 
Sports and Concerts Complex in,_____. Armenia; and ~----------~ France. 
Although the Petitioner established that she exhibited her work on television and at concerts, festivals, 
and other music venues, simply displaying one's work, however, does not automatically place one at 
the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the significance of her performances, such as they brought wide praise from 
critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for the success of standings of the 
events. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, regarding her commercial successes, while the 
Petitioner ointed out that 1,233 seats were sold out of 1,381 seats at her 2007 concert at th~ 
1-----~------' California and she sold out 2,041 seats at her 2012 concert at the l..==J 
,_____ ~Sports and Concerts Complex in I I Armenia, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her ticket sales place her among the small percentage at the very top of the field. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not compare her box office receipts or ticket sales to others among the very top of the 
field. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish herself from others in the field or shows a 
career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that her work garnered a level ofattention or was regularly seen at highly reputable 
venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that she earned approximately $4,200 for a two­
hour concert. However, the Petitioner did not establish that she commanded earnings commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not show that her wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not demonstrate, for example, 
how her salary compared to others at the very top ofher field, or that she received notoriety or attention 
based on her earnings separating herself from others in the field or placing her in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
5 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 4 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 As the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. we need not 
consider whether she will continue to work her area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we decline to reach and hereby reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating 
that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where 
applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 6, 2023 In Re: 28423326 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petlt10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's claimed business ventures in Argentina include car rental franchises, a used car 
dealership, a travel agency, and e-commerce platforms for apparel sellers. The Petitioner entered the 
United States in 2018 as an E-2 treaty investor, to run a sporting goods store. He now manages a real 
estate investment finn in the southeastern United States. 
The Petitioner filed the appeal in late March 2023, submitting a short statement and indicating that he 
would submit a brief within 30 days. More than six months have since elapsed, and the record contains 
no further submission from the Petitioner. We consider the record to be complete as it now stands. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four ofthese criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work ofothers; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
A final merits determination of [the submitted] evidence found that [the Petitioner] did 
not meet the required high level of expertise for the extraordinary ability immigrant 
classification. The [Director's] analysis of the statutory criteria was misaligned with 
the proffered evidence and the statement of law that supported the denial misapplied 
the standard ofreview and conveyed internally inconsistent application ofthe grounds, 
contradicting itself in the text, and applying, what appears to be [a] hybrid standard of 
review, using both the framework for the Field of Science Business [sic], 
interchangeably. 
The Petitioner's appeal statement refers to a final merits determination, but the Director's decision 
included no final merits determination because the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met 
at least three ofthe threshold criteria. The Petitioner claims that the Director incorrectly analyzed the 
evidence but does not elaborate in any detail. Regarding the final part of the quoted passage, the 
2 
Petitioner appears to argue that the Director sometimes categorized the Petitioner's area of claimed 
expertise as "science," and other times as "business." The Petitioner does not, however, explain how 
this claimed "hybrid standard of review" affected the outcome of the petition. The statute and 
regulations do not establish separate standards of review for individuals in business and those in the 
sciences. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner submitted no new evidence in response to a 
request for evidence (RFE). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his "submitted evidence [in response 
to the] Request for Evidence was not properly reviewed." The Petitioner does not identify any specific 
evidence he claims to have submitted in response to the RFE. The RFE response cunently in the 
record consists primarily of a 1 7-page brief. The arguments in that brief warrant consideration, but 
the brief itself is not evidence. See Matter of S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) (stating that 
"statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any 
evidentiary weight"). 1 
Because the Petitioner's RFE response did not include any evidence relating to the eligibility criteria, 
there is no support for the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that he "submitted evidence [in response to 
the] Request for Evidence [that] was not properly reviewed." 
The last substantive paragraph of the Petitioner's appeal statement addresses two of the regulatory 
criteria that he claims to have satisfied: 
Furthermore, the Service committed a material enor that prejudiced the outcome of 
[the petition] by not following Service Policy in the adjudication of his submitted 
evidence. For example, the Service did not properly consider the evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the organizations for which [the Petitioner] held a leading 
or critical role, or credit the media about him, which was in major media, and expressly 
identifies him by name in his capacity for the work being submitted in support of EB I 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, alleges no specific en-ors regarding the other two regulatory criteria, relating 
to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Because the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding those 
criteria, the Petitioner has waived appeal on those issues. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 
658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse 
decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (finding the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner states, without elaboration, that his response to the RFE 
"demonstrated that [he] meets the requirements" of the four claimed criteria. But this is a general 
statement of eligibility, rather than a response to the Director's specific conclusions regarding those 
1 The RFE response letter referred to only one attached exhibit, consisting of copies of the Petitioner's employment 
authorization documents. This evidence does not pertain to the eligibility criteria for extraordinary ability. The Petitioner 
submitted these materials to address a separate issue relating to his nonimmigrant status. 
3 
criteria. See Desravines v. US. Att'y Gen., 343 F. App'x 433,435 (11th Cir. 2009) (indicating that a 
passing reference in the arguments section of a brief without substantive arguments is insufficient to 
raise that ground on appeal). An appellant who does not properly challenge one or more ofthe grounds 
for denial has abandoned any challenge of that ground or grounds. See Sapuppo v. Allstate Floridian 
Ins. Co., 739 F.3d 678, 680 (11th Cir. 2014); United States v. Cooper, No. 17-11548, 2019 WL 
2414405, at *3 (11th Cir. June 10, 2019). 
Below, we will discuss the relevant evidence pe1taining to the two eligibility criteria discussed on appeal. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In the initial filin the Petitioner stated that he "has perfrnmed in a leading or critical role for~I____. 
all organizations ofl distinjished reputation" in the 
Petitioner's native Argentina. ,...___ _, is an online clothing seller; is a car rental company; 
._______.I is an online used car dealership; and.__ ______ __.is a travel agency. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "did not properly consider the evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the organizations for which [the Petitioner] held a leading or critical role." 
The Director, however, did not state any conclusions about the organizations' reputations. Rather, the 
Director determined that "the evidence does not establish that the petitioner's role within these companies 
was leading or critical." Therefore, the Petitioner's statement on appeal does not address the stated basis 
for denial. 
The Director's conclusions revolve around the observation that the Petitioner relied on letters from 
individuals who made assertions of objective fact without substantiating their claims or sufficiently 
establishing their personal knowledge of the matters discussed. The Director raised this concern in the 
RFE and again in the denial, but the Petitioner has not directly addressed this issue. 
Upon review ofthe evidence, we agree with the Director on the broad conclusion that the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof relating to this criterion, although we disagree on some of the specifics. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from individuals identified as the former chief financial officer ofl 
a former sales and marketing manager for I Ia co-founder of.__ ______ ___. and 
a banker who was involved in the purchase ofl IThese individuals describe various 
activities that the Beneficiary undertook at those companies, staring, fol instance, that the Petitioner 
"created an entiryy new I fulfillment process that ... likely saved" and that he took "the lead in 
reintroducing the brand back to Argentina." 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the submitted letters but stated that, without corroboration, the 
letters by themselves do not satisfy the regulatory requirements. The Director asked for "evidence which 
supports the claims and contributions made by the authors ofthe letters." 
In response, the Petitioner asserted that the Director's RFE violated the Petitioner's right to due process 
by incorporating elements of a separate, unclaimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), pertaining to 
original contributions ofmajor significance. We acknowledge that the language taken from that criterion 
4 
does not apply to the criterion under discussion, but this error by the Director does not relieve the 
Petitioner from having to comply with properly applicable requirements. The Director's request for 
corroborating evidence stems from the Petitioner's burden of proof, rather than from the Director's 
mistaken reliance on an inapplicable regulation. 
The Petitioner cited 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l ), which states that evidence ofqualifying experience must take 
the form ofletters from employers. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges the requirement for letters 
from employers, and adds additional considerations: 
[L]etters from persons with personal knowledge ofthe significance ofthe person's leading 
or critical role can be particularly helpful [ when determining a leading or critical role], so 
long as the letters contain detailed and probative info1mation that specifically addresses 
how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department was 
leading or critical. Evidence of experience must consist ofletters from employers. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1 ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. We note that the 
individual attesting to the Beneficiaiy's work with I I does not claim to have been an 
official of that company. Rather, he described himself as a banker who invested in the company as a 
means of"nourishing [his] passive income." As such, the Petitioner has not established that this letter is 
from his employer. 
While the USCIS Policy Manual emphasizes the importance of letters to establish a person's role at a 
given organization or establishment, such statements should be corroborated by documentary evidence 
in the record. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(3). The Petitioner's initial 
submission included no documentary evidence ofhis roles at the companies named above. 
The Petitioner also asserted, in the RFE response, that he already "did submit objective evidence to 
support his claims." The initial submission, however, does not contain such evidence. 
The initial submission included printouts ofmedia articles discussing his various claimed businesses, but 
the Petitioner's name does not appear in any of the articles, and therefore they do not corroborate claims 
regarding the nature of his roles with those companies. The only submitted online material linking the 
Petitioner with I Iis a company profile in Gust, naming four "team" members, including the 
Petitioner. The other three named team members also have listed titles ("CMO, "CFO," and "CTO"); the 
Petitioner is identified only as a co-founder of the company, with no other title and no substantive 
discussion ofhis role there. An article from Infonegocios discusses the company's early years, and names 
the other three team members as thle compafy's founders, but it includes no mention of the Petitioner. 
Likewise, submitted articles about growth in Latin America and a published interview with Ico-founder do not mention the Petitioner. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the submitted letters lacked some important information, and 
that the Petitioner had not submitted any further evidence in response to the RFE. As noted above, the 
Petitioner does not address or overcome this conclusion on appeal. 
5 I 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted consistent evidence to establish his leading or critical roles with 
the named companies, we need not address the separate question of whether those companies have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the Director's conclusions, and has not met his burden ofproof regarding 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted translated printouts of four on line articles, all published in early October 2009 
about a brand of e-cigarette. Each of the four articles quotes the Petitioner and identifies him as the 
marketing director of the cigarette's manufacturer, but contains no fmiher infonnation about him. 
In the RFE, the Director stated: "The material ... only cites, quotes, or references the petitioner. ... The 
articles merely quote the petitioner [ regarding] the product in his official capacity as marketing director. 
There is no discussion ofthe petitioner or his work in the field." 
In response, the Petitioner quoted 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(3): 
[T]he person and the person's work need not be the only subject ofthe material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's 
work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the work may be considered 
material about the person relating to the person's work. 
The Petitioner stated that the articles meet the above requirements, because his "work in the field" 
consisted of "marketing of the product," and, by quoting the Petitioner, the article "mentions [him] in 
connection to the work." 
The Petitioner's assertions are not persuasive. The articles do not include "a substantial discussion of [the 
Petitioner's] work in the field." The "substantial discussion" is about a new brand of e-cigarette and an 
explanation of how "vaping" differs from smoking. Quotations from the Petitioner describing that 
product do not amount to substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work as a marketing director. The 
articles do not contain any information about the Petitioner except his name and title. 
In denying the petition, the Director repeated the conclusion that the articles are not about the Petitioner, 
relating to his work in the field. The Director also identified other shortcomings in the evidence, such as 
lack of author attributions, but we need not explore those other issues here because the issue already 
discussed is enough to show that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director did not "credit the media about him, which was in major 
media, and expressly identifies him by name in his capacity for the work being submitted in support of 
EBI eligibility." We have already explained why the articles are not about the Petitioner. 
6 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that the articles relate to his "work in the field for which 
classification is sought" as the regulations require. The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability as an "entrepreneur," who intends to run a real estate equity firm. The Petitioner has 
not established, or claimed, that he worked for the e-cigarette company as an entrepreneur. Rather, the 
articles describe him as the company's "marketing director." 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof to satisfy the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has waived appeal on the other two claimed criteria, relating to 
remuneration and judging. Furthermore, the above conclusions relating to two of the claimed four 
criteria are sufficient to show that the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve these issues. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work at a level that indicates the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We have already discussed how the media articles naming the Petitioner do not refer to him as an 
entrepreneur. Furthermore, those articles all date from a two-day period in October 2009, more than 
12 years before he filed the petition. Therefore, they do not demonstrate sustained media attention. 
The Petitioner also claims high salary or remuneration, but he has not submitted any evidence that 
documents his salary, remuneration, or equity holdings from any source. He submitted articles about 
the sale of a company he claims to have co-founded, but those articles do not indicate that he received 
any of the proceeds from the sale. The letters in the record are from individuals who claim to have 
worked directly with the Petitioner, and therefore are not direct evidence of any broader recognition 
consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 11, 2023 In Re: 28355024 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a gender, diversity, and inclusion specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director subsequently 
reopened the proceeding. In a second decision, the Director denied the petition, concluding that 
although the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, she did not establish, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among that small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. CHRONOLOGY 
The 
Petitioner earned a master's degree in anthropology (with minors in sociology and gender studies 
frot11 IBerlin in 2004, and a master's degree in international affairs from~--~ 
University in 2005. She has had approximately 17 years of work experience with several agencies of 
the United Nations includin the 
'-------------------------------'as a liaison officer, consultant, 
program manager, and partnerships manjger. It the time of filing, she stated that she was employed 
as a digital partnerships manager with the in G-4 nonimmigrant status. The Petitioner indicates 
that she intends to continue working in the United States in the field ofgender, inclusion, and diversity 
but in the private sector, specifically, the media and entertainment industry. 
The Petitioner filed the Form I-140 petition in May 2022, at which time the Director issued a request 
for evidence (RFE). The Petitioner submitted a response to the RFE in July 2022. The Director denied 
the petition in August 2022. In December 2022, the Director reopened the proceeding, and issued a 
second RFE. The Petitioner responded to the RFE in March 2023. The Director denied the petition a 
second time in April 2023, and the Petitioner appealed the decision in May 2023. 
2 
III. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that she could meet up to five of the ten 
criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met three of the evidentiary criteria and therefore 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner submitted evidence that she had participated as a judge of the work of others in the 
field; evidence that she had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation; and evidence that she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). Although we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, 
we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the judging and high salary criteria, discussed 
later. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements by 
meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field of specialization. For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that she meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her asserted review 
of advertising campaign submissions at the Ad Venture Student Competition 2018-2019. The record 
shows that the competition, sponsored by the European Institute for Commercial Communications 
Education (EDCOM), required competing teams to provide advertising campaigns that raise 
awareness of gender-stereotyped marketing aimed at children. 
Within the initial submission, the Petitioner provided an email dated March 22, 2019, addressed to her 
from E-H-, an education and training assistant with the European Association of Communications 
Agencies (EACA), 1 providing her individual login details to the Ad Venture judging platform. The 
email also attached a jury information pack for the competition, indicating that "for the first round of 
judging, each juror will be given between 7-9 campaigns to judge between 22 March and 8 April 2019 
.... on our online Ad Venture platform, through which students also submit their work." The 
information pack indicated that jurors would award each submission with a score out of 10 points for 
three separate judging criteria: research; strategy; and creativity and media. The Petitioner also 
provided an additional email addressed to her from E-L-dated April 4, 2019, which states "I am 
getting in touch with you to make sure everything is running smoothly with the judging process" and 
1 The record shows that EACA founded EDCOM in 2007. 
3 
advising the Petitioner "to reach out should you encounter any difficulties accessing the platform or 
submitting your votes." 
Within her response to the Director's first RFE, the Petitioner provided an email she sent to E-L-dated 
April 5, 2019, stating "I will make sure to complete the judging in the next couple of days." Further, 
she provided emails from E-L-dated April 26, 2019, and May 22, 2019, addressed to "Ad Venture 
Jurors," thanking them for their participation, identifying the teams that made the final competition, 
and providing the winner of the Ad Venture Student Competition 2018-2019. 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. Here, the above emails do not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually 
completed the judging of advertising campaigns for the 2018-2019 Ad Venture Student Competition. 
Instead, as indicated above, the emails reflect a reminder to conduct the advertising campaign judging, 
and the Petitioner's statement of her intention to complete that task. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed the advertising campaign 
judging. Further, the Petitioner did not submit corroborating documentation showing how many or 
which advertising campaigns she reviewed at the first round of the Ad Venture Student Competition 
2018-2019. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision ofthe 
Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that they 
have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. 
In her personal statement, the Petitioner placed particular emphasis on having "contributed to and co­
authored some ofl Imajor professional publications such as their annual reports" published 
in 2021. The Petitioner relies upon several support letters from coworkers to establish her eligibility 
under this criterion. The authors indicate that the Petitioner, during her tenure at I l contributed 
to I I publications. The letters support a determination that she has experience in the field of 
gender, diversity, and inclusion, and has offered valuable contributions to projects to which she was 
assigned. However, the letters do not describe a specific original contribution that has impacted the 
broader field of gender, diversity, and inclusion, provoked widespread commentary, or had an 
influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her previously submitted recommendation letters from L-R-and 
S-J-, both ofl I"clearly describe how the [Petitioner's] research contributions have impacted 
4 
the field."2 The letter from L-R-, Associate Director, Gender Equality, and S-J-, Senior Advisor, 
Gender Equality, describe the Petitioner's previous roles as "Gender Socialization Programme 
Manager" and "Partnerships Manager" with I I Gender Section in New York. The Petitioner 
indicates in her resume that she held these roles between 2017 and 2021. 
The letter from L-R-relates that the Petitioner's work involved "researching and reportinJ our findings 
as to how the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted women and girls" in three I publications 
published in 2021. 3 It asserts she "helped yield new resources for the team" through partnerships with 
corporations such as I Ion self-esteem and body confidence for girls, and I Ion 
STEM and digital literacy skills for girls. 
The letter from S-J-, relates the Petitioner's having made "original contributions ofmajor significance 
in the area of promoting gender roles in media and entertainment" through researching and 
contributing to several additional I I publications published in 2021. 4 S-J-praises her "sharp 
focus on identifying and providing solutions to address gender-related stereotypes." However, the 
letters from L-R-and S-J-did not elaborate on how her research contributions and reporting have been 
of major significance in the overall field beyond the U.N. agencies that utilized her contracted 
services. 5 
For instance, S-J-broadly claimed thatl lhas benefited from [the Petitioner's] contributions, 
other UN agencies have benefited from her contributions, and the international community of girls 
and women has benefited from [the Petitioner's] work. The impact of her work is far-reaching and 
significant, and it exhibits innovative approaches to age-old problems." Here, S-J-did not provide 
specific information explaining how the Petitioner's contributions impacted the greater field. While 
this and other letters in the record sufficiently show that she performed in critical roles for specific 
organizations satisfying the regulation at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion, 
they do not demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major significance in the larger 
field. 
Furthermore, L-R-speculates on the potential influence of a corporate partnership the Petitioner 
developed and on the possibility of its being majorly significant at some Toint in the future. For 
example, L-R-asserted that the partnership the Petitioner developed with Ion STEM and 
digital literacy skills for girls will "increase their representation in STEM careers and the 21st century 
workforce of the future." While L-R-indicates promise in the Petitioner's previous work for 
2 Although we discuss only the letters that the Petitioner highlights on appeal, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 L-R-cites to the followin I I ublications : Famil -Friend! Policies or Workers in the In ormal Economy: 
'F====;-------------------r---------r-----...,.. .org), and the 
.___ __.I annual reports, Global Annual Results Report 2020 ._________ _.. org) and Global Annual Results 
Report 2020 -I !.,..r......__ _, 
4,..-S_ -_J-_c_i_te~s_to~th-e~fo-11-o~w-in_ a -d-d~it-io~n-al ____ -u~b1-ic_a-ti~on=s-: _A~dv_a -n~cz"""""i ·nPositive Gender Norms and Socialization ---------,---.--------------Responsive Parenting .....__ __.org); and Promoting Diversity and Inclusion -d !org); Technical Note -Gender
in Advertising: ._______ ____,I !org). 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) ; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
~--~I Gender Section she did not demonstrate how her work already qualifies as a contribution 
of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of 
her work to the greater field has yet to be determined, measured, or established. 
Submitted letters should specifically describe the Petitioner's contribution and its significance to the 
field. 6 Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact her work has had on the overall field. USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
The Petitioner also submitted her claimed publications and citation evidence for her published work. 
The Petitioner indicated that she co-authored the above six publications and that others cited her 
written work in their own work. In Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, l 036 (9th Cir. 2009), the court 
held that publications and presentations are not sufficient evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
absent evidence that they were of "major significance" in the field. In 2010, the Kazarian court 
reaffirmed its holding that we did not abuse our discretion in finding that the petitioner had not 
demonstrated contributions of major significance. 596 F.3d at 1122. Furthermore, there is no 
presumption that every published article or conference presentation is a contribution of major 
significance in the field; rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of their article or 
presentation. 
As one type of evidence of the impact of her work, within her response to the second RFE, the 
Petitioner included a Google Scholar citation report which indicated that two versions of the 
Petitioner's 2021 ublication, entitledFamil -Friend! Policies or Workers in the In ormal Economy: 
'---------------------------------------'were 
published on Papers.ssrm.com and Europepmc.org. The citation report from Google Scholar did not 
show that the publication garnered any citations. 7 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can 
confirm that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. The Petitioner 
submitted several examples of articles that cited to the ublication Famil -Friend! Policies or 
Workers in the In ormal Economy:'--------------.----..-----------~ '------------~ including self-citations in other~___,publications; however, they 
do not reflect that her written work was singled out as particularly important. Rather, the Petitioner's 
work was utilized as background information to the authors' articles. The Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that her citations for any of her claimed publications are commensurate with 
contributions of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
6 Id. 
7 The remaining five publications the Petitioner claims to have authored are not listed on the aforementioned Google 
Scholar report. 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As indicated earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. If a petitioner claims to meet this 
criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence of their earnings or 
remuneration and evidence such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See 
generally, 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). For the reasons outlined below, the record 
does not reflect that the Petitioner provided sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that she 
fulfils this criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim that she could satisfy this criterion. The Director's second RFE 
advised her that she would need to submit documentation of her annual earnings and evidence that 
would allow USCIS to compare her earnings to that of others working in the field. In response to the 
Director's RFE and on appeal, the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her salary 
at her position at I I Specifically, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing her salary in her 
current role as "Digital Partnerships Manager" at I I The Petitioner's current position is also 
described in the record by I Ias a "Partnerships & Fundraising Specialist." However, the 
Petitioner provided wage data of occupations that are not same as these positions. In particular, the 
Petitioner offered documentation relating to the salaries ofgender, diversity, and inclusion consultants, 
specialists, and managers. 
Although she likens her salary to other occupations, the Petitioner did not show that she commands a 
high salary "in relation to others in the field," such as digital partnerships managers and partnerships 
and fundraising specialists. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate she earned a high salary 
compared to others in her field. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion, we withdraw the decision of 
the Director for this criterion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the leading or critical role criterion, she does not meet 
any additional criteria on appeal regarding judging, contributions, and high salary. While she claims 
eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
7 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 8 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance ofher work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(I )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 12, 2023 In Re: 28403260 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a disc jockey (DJ) and sound producer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by apreponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserted that he is an individual of extraordinary ability as a DJ, sound producer, and 
digital marketer. The Director's decision stated: 
USCIS considers the field of digital marketing to be a different field from that of being 
a DJ or Sound Producer... A beneficiary must show how he will continue working in 
the United States in the claimed area of expertise. The record shows that the beneficiary 
intends to work for a record label I I and will "record, mix, master and 
deliver to the company master recordings." Therefore, this petition will be adjudicated 
based on the beneficiary's extraordinary ability as it relates to this field (DJ/sound 
producing). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing the Director's determination 
regarding the field of expertise.1 Therefore, we will analyze the record based upon the Petitioner's 
asserted extraordinary ability as a DJ and sound producer, and not as a digital marketer. While we do 
not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -
(x). The Director found the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. 
1 We therefore consider this issue abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that 
when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. 
U.S. Att'v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th 
Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at * 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's 
claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts he 
meets six additional evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze below.2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.3 
The Director analyzed the Playlist I !honor the Petitioner received. The Director stated, "we 
do not consider such an honor to be a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, because it is limited to participants of that competition who are 
interested in their music being played in a park or skating rink inl I" We agree with the 
Director's analysis ofthe Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. The Playlistl Ihonor is 
neither an award or prize, nor is it granted for excellence in the field of DJ'ing or sound producing. 
Rather, it is a determination that an artist's track will be played in a park in I I The Director 
also concluded that the Playlist I I honor is not uncommon in the field. Evidence indicates 
that there were "500 winning tracks" among 20 to 30 winning participants each year. The 
competition's large number of winners each year further suggests that selection is not based on 
excellence in the field. Although the Petitioner submitted evidence of past winners, he provided little 
evidence to establish that these past winners enjoy national or international acclaim such that it would 
suggest the honor is nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional background information on the competition and 
emphasizes that it is open to artists from many different countries. While we acknowledge the 
international nature of the competitors, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence showing 
that winning the competition is a prize or award, that it is for excellence in DJ'ing or sound production, 
or that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which class(fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.4 
2 Initially, the Petitioner asserted eligibility under the criteria 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), and (x), related to 
membership, authorship of scholarly articles, and commercial box office success, respectively. The Director determined 
the evidence was insufficient to establish eligibility under these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert error in 
that determination and therefore we consider the issue of eligibility under these three criteria to be waived. 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol icymanual/HTM L/Pol icyManual. htm I. 
4 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established how Fashion and Beauty magazine 
is a professional or major trade publications or other major medium.5 The Petitioner provided the 
magazine's 2013 circulation data, which does not appear to be relevant to the magazine's circulation 
status in 2015, when they featured the Petitioner in their on line publication. Further, the Petitioner did 
not support the record with independent, objective evidence corroborating the medium's own 
circulation claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga 
v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
(concluding that self-serving asse1iions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 
2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the published material need only be about the Petitioner's 
work in the field and that there is no need for his inclusion in the publication to have any significance 
attached to it. While we acknowledge this interpretation, the Director's determination did not turn 
upon whether the articles are about the Petitioner. The Petitioner's assertions on appeal do not 
overcome the determination that the material is not published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show he has not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization.6 The Director determined the Petitioner's evidence did not establish eligibility 
under this criterion because "the regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of 
evaluating subordinate employees or products in participation in ajob function." We agree. However, 
on appeal, the Petitioner provided additional analysis regarding the Petitioner's participation in a 
casting panel for I I While casting, the Petitioner evaluated participants to determine those 
best suited to perform atl IThe additional explanation on appeal is sufficient to establish 
that the evidence satisfies the plain language of the criterion. Therefore, we conclude the Petitioner 
has met this criterion.7 
Evidence of the individual 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 However, were we to engage in a final merits determination, we would conclude the Petitioner's evidence under this 
criterion is not probative of extraordinary ability as a DJ or sound producer. 
4 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.8 
The Director analyzed the,__________ __,materials and the workshops the Petitioner 
conducted, as well as his academic thesis regarding how marketing can improve the efficiency of 
banking. We agree with the Director's conclusion that such evidence does not relate to the field of 
being a DJ or sound producer. Even if we ignore that digital marketing is a separate field from DJ'ing 
or sound production, the record would still not contain sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
Petitioner's digital marketing techniques are original or innovative as claimed. In other words, simply 
because a client is unfamiliar with or had not previously leveraged digital marketing options, does not 
establish that the methods the Petitioner offers are original. In fact, the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner undertook digital marketing courses to learn more about the field, which further suggests 
that the methods the Petitioner uses are not necessarily original. Just as important, even if the 
Petitioner developed or created methods that various artists use in their work, this would not 
demonstrate the methods' significance in the field, as opposed to only the individual artists, clients, 
and businesses that hired the Petitioner for his services.9 Therefore, even original music tracks are 
insufficient under this criterion unless the evidence also demonstrated that they were of major 
significance to the field. 
We reviewed each recommendation letter but conclude that they lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language that we do not consider to be probative of eligibility under this criterion.10 USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). To illustrate, many authors claim that the Petitioner's digital marketing and sound 
production techniques contributed to their success. In support, they provide statistics, such as the 
number of social media followers they have, track downloads, or traffic to their sites. However, there 
is little comparative evidence connecting the Petitioner's work to their social media presence or even 
a baseline for which to compare an artist's prior social media presence to their improved presence after 
working with Petitioner. Other authors reference that Zara and the National Football League (NFL) 
used the Petitioner's musical tracks, but they do not provide sufficient details about the Petitioner's 
role in producing the tracks, nor does the record contain sufficient evidence to substantiate the authors' 
assertions. Even if the Petitioner worked on a particular track that became mainstream, increased the 
artists' downloads, or led to artists' success, there is little evidence to establish how these 
accomplishments would be of major significance to the DJ or sound production field. 
The evidence does not establish the Petitioner made original contributions, or that the contributions 
have been majorly significant in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility 
under this criterion. 
8 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
10 See id. at 9; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient 
to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
A petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, we 
consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establ ishment.11 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.12 
The Director acknowledged McDonald's as a recognized establishment but concluded that the 
Petitioner's Certificate of Gratitude for participating in 'I Idid not establish how the 
Petitioner performed a leading or critical role. The Director also determined the Petitioner's 
certificates of appreciation and support letters were insufficient, as they originated from organizations 
for which the evidence did not establish a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the recommendation letters' authors demonstrate how the 
Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for them. Specifically, various musical artists and DJs 
praise the Petitioner's work and highlight how leading and critical it was to their success. As 
previously explained, many of the authors use hyperbolic language without substantiating their 
assertions with sufficient evidence. For example, I I 
Dwrites that "[a]ll [the Petitioner's] contributions let us accelerate our promotion and drive real 
fan engagement and growth. However,! ldoes not sufficiently identify each contribution or 
provide corroborative evidence or detail substantiating the claimed accelerated promotion, fan 
engagement, and growth. Simi larly,I Istates the Petitioner "helped us to sign contracts with 
the most talented people in the world, undiscovered "musical treasures," but he does not identify who 
the musical treasures are or how the Petitioner helped to discover them. A celebrity YouTube star 
writes that the Petitioner boosted her career and that she "discovered music industry secrets" as a result 
of collaborating with the Petitioner. However, the author does not provide sufficient comparative 
evidence to substantiate a "boost" in her career or how it is attributable to the Petitioner, nor does she 
identify what secrets she learned from the Petitioner or how a "collaborator" role is leading or critical. 
These examples are illustrative of the recommendation letters as a whole and contribute to our 
determination that the Petitioner's leading or critical role for these artists is unsubstantiated. Just as 
important, the Petitioner has not explained how individual artists are "organizations or 
establishments," nor has the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence of their reputations. We 
acknowledge the artists' self-proclaimed reputations; however, as this is neither independent nor 
objective, it is of little probative value. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id. 
6 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to 
the compensation paid to others working in the field. 13 The Director explained that average salary 
information "for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison" and that to "successfully claim this criterion, a 
petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in his occupation performing 
similar work at the top level of the field because this is where the petitioner claims to stand." The 
Petitioner provided average salary data tori lfrom Russia's Office of 
Federal State Statistics Service (PETROSTAT). However, positions such as those entitled 
"advertising and marketing specialists," do not appear analogous to the Petitioner's position and 
duties. Further, PETROST AT specifically states that it does not have information on the average 
accrued wages by types of economic activity in the Russian Federation and that its data do not provide 
a sufficient level ofreliability. Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner's evidence is not sufficiently 
detailed or reliable for average salary comparison purposes. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that demonstrating the Petitioner's salary is above average is 
sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. However, we need not analyze this assertion, as 
the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence of his earnings. Instead, he offered evidence of 
contracts he signed with businesses and copies of invoices. It is not apparent from these documents 
what the Petitioner's salary or remuneration is in total or across any particular span of time. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfi 11 the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the type 
of final merits analysis referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate. We conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The letter 
from singer and social media influencer.I Inotes that the Petitioner is one of a few "on 
his way to success;" however, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 20, 2023 In Re: 23099341 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biomedical researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the sciences. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria required for 
eligibility. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011); Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-92 (5th Cir. 2022). 
However, USCIS may revoke its approval of an immigrant visa petition "at any time" for "good and 
sufficient cause." Section 205 ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. The realization that a petition was approved 
in error may be good and sufficient cause for revoking its approval. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
590 (BIA 1988). USCIS may issue a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) a petition's approval if the 
unexplained and unrebutted record at the time of the notice's issuance would have warranted the 
filing' s denial based on the petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Matter ofEs time, 19 I&N 
Dec. 450,451 (BIA) 1987). The NOIR provides the opportunity to submit evidence in support of the 
petition and in opposition to the alleged grounds for revocation. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b ). If the NOIR 
response does not rebut or resolve revocation grounds stated in the notice, USCIS properly revokes a 
petition's approval. Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451-52. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a biomedical researcher, and intends to continue this pursuit in the United States. In 
her initial petition, she stated that she qualifies for the extraordinary ability classification under the 
following three evidentiary grounds: 1 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles in the field. 
The Petitioner's case was approved in April 2021. In May 2021, the Director issued a request for 
evidence (RFE), stating that the Petitioner had met the evidentiary criteria for participation as a judge 
and authorship of scholarly articles and requesting further documentation of her contributions to her 
field in order to establish her eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 2 Upon 
receiving the Petitioner's timely response, the Director issued an NOIR stating that the petition had 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not establish, that she has a one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) of the Act. 
2 The Petitioner correctly notes that RFEs should not be issued for previously-approved petitions. Under 8 C.F.R. § 205.2 
and § 204.S(n), an approved T-140 remains valid indefinitely unless it is properly revoked, which requires the issuance of 
an NOIR. However, the Director subsequently issued a proper NOIR based solely on the evidence in the record at the time 
of the petition's approval, to which the Petitioner had a full opportunity to respond. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b). As such. this 
procedural error has been remedied and we will not address it further. 
2 
been approved in error because the record only established the Petitioner's eligibility for two criteria 
instead of the required three. The Director again stated that the Petitioner had established her 
authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a judge, and requested farther documentation 
of the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance to her field. The Petitioner provided a 
timely response, and the petition's approval was subsequently revoked with a finding that the 
Petitioner did not meet at least three of the required ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. The Director Properly Issued the Notice oflntent to Revoke 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director had no authority to revoke the petition's approval 
because "[t]he revoking officer did not state that the original adjudicating officer was unreasonable 
in 
his or her original conclusion that the evidence was sufficient" and didn't cite an error in the approval 
apart from a lack ofsufficient probative, relevant, and credible evidence establishing that the Petitioner 
had made a major contribution to her field. According to the appellate brief, this subjected the petition 
to "a higher standard of review ... not rooted in law or policy guidance" but instead "a matter of 
subjective opinion." We disagree. 
An officer issuing an NOIR does not need to demonstrate a "clear error" in the prior decision or to 
show that the approving officer was "unreasonable," as claimed by the Petitioner, but only to find that 
the unrebutted record at the time of the NOIR' s issuance would merit the petition's denial based on 
the petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. If 
supported by the record, the realization that an approval was made in error may, in and of itself: be 
"good and sufficient cause" for revoking a petition. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 590. 
Furthermore, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofOtiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013); Matter 
ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012); Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 588-89; 
Matter of Brantigan, 11 I&N Dec. 493, 495 (BIA 1966). This burden remains with the petitioner 
throughout revocation proceedings. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 588-89, Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 452 n.1 ( citations omitted). 
In order to meet their burden of proof, a petitioner must submit relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence leading us to believe that their claim is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76 (AAO 2010) (citing Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (BIA 
1989)) (explaining the "preponderance of the evidence" evidentiary standard petitioners must meet in 
these proceedings). A failure to meet this burden as to a material claim is sufficient to merit a petition's 
denial, and therefore sufficient to merit the revocation of its approval. Id.; Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 451. Upon de novo review of the entire record, we conclude that at the time of the petitioner's 
approval, the Petitioner did not meet this burden of proof regarding her contributions to her field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As such, the Director had good and sufficient cause to issue the NOIR. 
Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. 
The Petitioner farther claims that NOIR did not state a good and sufficient cause for revocation 
because it did not "include a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, 
but also of the supporting evidence." Id. at 451-52. According to the appellate brief: the NOIR was 
issued "without acknowledging any discrepancies from the approval or what evidence is in question," 
3 
and so did not provide an adequate explanation of the grounds of revocation. However, as explained 
above, an NOIR need only explain why the unrebutted record at the time of its issuance would merit 
the petition's denial based on a petitioner's failure to meet their burden of proof Id. at 451. In the 
present case, the NOIR properly explains why the evidence of record at the time of the petition's 
approval was insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof and establish she had made a majorly 
significant contribution to her field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
For example, the notice states that the Petitioner's listing as a co-inventor on a patent does not, in and 
of itself: establish the significance of the underlying invention to the Petitioner's field, and that the 
record did not include corroborating documentation showing that the patent had resulted in significant 
commercial sales or had an impact on others in her field. This articulates why the patent 
documentation does not include the information needed to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof and 
show it is more likely than not that the invention documented in the patent is majorly significant to 
her field. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. The Director similarly provides reasoned 
explanations of why the remainder of the evidence did not establish, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that any ofthe Petitioner's contributions to her field were ofmajor significance. Id., 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). As explained in the NOIR, this meant that the evidence at the time of the approval 
did not meet at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and so did not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
The NOIR is supported by the record and explains why the petition's approval was in error, and 
therefore states a good and sufficient cause for revoking that approval. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 
590. However, as detailed below, the Petitioner has since overcome the NOIR's concerns and 
established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
B. Contribution of Major Significance to the Field 
The second issue on appeal is whether the record establishes that the Petitioner has made a scientific 
contribution of major significance to her field of pharmacology. 3 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On 
appeal, the Petitioner contends that the revocation was in error because "the statutory and regulatory 
framework defining eligibility for immigrant status as an alien of extraordinary ability nowhere 
requires that each and every research contribution by a petitioner be demonstrated to be majorly 
significant; the framework only requires that, as a whole, a petitioner's work be demonstrative of 
national or international acclaim in his or her field of expertise ..." ( emphases removed). 
We agree that the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) only requires evidence that a noncitizen 
made "contributions of major significance," not evidence that all of a noncitizen's work meets this 
standard. However, the Petitioner's interpretation of this criterion conflates it with the final merits 
evaluation under Kazarian, which is not applicable unless she can first show that she meets at least 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 
24 F.4th 383, 391-92. As stated by the Director in the NOIR, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires a 
showing that the Petitioner has made a specific contribution to her field, that this contribution was 
original, and that this contribution was majorly significant to the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
3 It is noted that while the regulatory language calls for plural "contributions," a singular contribution may be sufficient to 
establish eligibility. See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 
Manual, supra, at F.2(B) (describing factors to be considered in evaluating this criterion). While the 
Petitioner puts forward various arguments about how her overall citation record establishes her 
eligibility for this criterion, the issue of whether her body of work is indicative of national or 
international acclaim is one that USCIS does not reach until the final merits analysis. Id.; Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. For this criterion, we will instead examine the originality and significance ofthe 
Petitioner's stated achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner identifies three achievements as qualifying her for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v): her development of a "never-before-seen PTX/FTS4 combination therapy for cancer 
treatment," the "widespread commentary" caused by being "the first scientist to discover the deadly 
side effects of PTX, the best-selling cancer drug," and being "the first scientist to create a prodrug­
based NLG919 molecule, pioneering a new approach to immunochemotherapy." 5 Upon review, the 
Petitioner has submitted sufficient documentation to establish that her 2016 paper6 in Nature 
Communications regarding the prodrug-based NLG919 molecule is an original and majorly significant 
contribution to the field. 
According to the support letter from Professor J-H-ofl !university, the Petitioner "creatively 
designed and synthesized a unique prodrug-based NLG919 molecule" that constitutes "a novel multi­
functional drug delivery system for immunotherapy." Professor L-X-of the University! I 
who collaborated with the Petitioner through her doctoral advisor, states that "[h ]er work on 
multifunctional nanocarriers was one of the first to focus on properly designed ... prodrugs" and has 
had success in breast cancer animal models. He further states that this work was a "driving force to a 
major revision in our thinking about the design of new drug carriers and reinvigoration of a field that 
had reached a conceptual dead end." Professor R-K-, of1 I further explains 
that the Petitioner's work "showed that the new combination of drugs can achieve synergistic effect 
while using a functional nanocarrier" and helped "overcome obstacles ... and solve the problem of 
delivery drug combination with different pharmacokinetics and solubilities." Professor K-P-of 
I I University states that this work created "a novel method to effectively induce 
immunogenic tumor cell death, pioneering a new approach for cancer immunotherapy," and describes 
how it inspired further research. This is supported by various sample citations provided by the 
Petitioner, showing that the article was considered notable by others in the field. 
The article's Google Scholar record and the corresponding documentation from Clarivate Analytics 
demonstrating the article's noteworthy citation record further indicate that the Nature Communications 
paper was a majorly significant contribution to the Petitioner's field of pharmacology. Finally, the 
record indicates that this paper provided much of the preliminary data for a related grant proposal that 
ultimately received funding from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). 7 We therefore conclude that 
4 PTX is an abbreviation of Paclitaxel, a chemotherapy medication also known commercially as Taxol. FTS is an 
abbreviation oftrans-famesylthiosalicylic acid, a synthetic molecule used in cancer treatment research. 
5 While we will not address every claim made in each ofthe Petitioner's letters ofsupport, we have considered and analyzed 
each one. 
6 The Petitioner was one of the paper's three equal first authors. 
7 We note that the Petitioner's appellate brief states that she "has received grants from the National Cancer Institute" based 
on her NLG919 research. However, the grant proposal included in the record is authored by the principal investigator, 
S-L-(the Petitioner's doctoral advisor), and includes a list ofall ofthe investigators to be involved in the proposed research, 
5 
the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence her eligibility under the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
C. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has met three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and has 
overcome the Director's ground of revocation. As such, the Director must make a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if it establishes her extraordinary ability in her field of endeavor. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 8 Because the Director did not perform a final merits determination in their decision, we are 
remanding this matter for them to do so. 
On remand, the Director should examine all of the evidence in the record and determine whether it 
shows, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner's achievements have translated into a 
level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the revocation ground, we will remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can make a final merits determination 
in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
noting their expe11ise and contributions to the preliminary data in the grant proposal. This list does not include the 
Petitioner. As noted above, the Petitioner's 2016 Nature Communications paper provides much of the proposal's 
preliminary data. However, as S-L-is the author and principal investigator of the grant proposal, which does not list the 
Petitioner as pa11 of the research team, it is not apparent that the Petitioner was awarded this grant, as claimed in her brief. 
Where there are discrepancies in the evidence, it is the Petitioner's burden to resolve these discrepancies using independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 T&N Dec. at 591-92. The Petitioner has not resolved 
the discrepancy between her claim that she has received NCI funding for her research and the documentation indicating 
that she was not one of the listed investigators on the relevant grant proposal, and this issue should be addressed on remand. 
8 Some factors that may establish that a noncitizen has extraordinary ability include senior or primary authorship ofarticles 
in pa11icularly high-ranked journals, a total rate of citations which is high relative to others in the field, and employment 
or research experience with leading institutions in the field. See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
Examples relevant to the Petitioner's field may be found in the credentials of the experts who wrote letters on her behalf 
in this case. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 20, 2023 In Re: 28425175 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician with specialized trammg in orthopedics and traumatology, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either through his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, by submitting evidence that satisfies 
at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a petitioner meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical doctor who completed a post-graduate specialization and residency in 
orthopedics and traumatology in 2016. His professional experience includes both clinical practice as 
a hospital-based consulting physician in this specialty, and academic experience as a lecturer and 
associate professor. At the time of filing, he was also enrolled in a joint masters/Ph.D. program in 
molecular oncology at a Turkish university. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed eligibility under five of the ten criteria. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to judging 
the work of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
respectively. The record supports this determination based on evidence that the Petitioner has provided 
his services as a peer reviewer for several scientific journals in the medical field, and evidence that he 
has co-authored and published scholarly articles in professional publications such as medical journals 
and conference proceedings. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to support his claim that 
he can satisfy the evidentiary criteria relating to memberships in associations in his field, published 
material about him and his work, and original contributions of major significance. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii) and (v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets all three ofthese criteria 
and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he is a member of several associations in his field and 
that such memberships satisfy the plain language of this criterion. These memberships include: 1 
• Turkish Educational Council of Orthopedics and Traumatology (TOPEK) 
• Turkish Orthopedics and Traumatology Association (TOTBID) 
• TOTBID -I IBranch 
• Medical Malpractice Association .-----------------, 
• Turkish Medical Association -~-----------~ 
With respect to his membership in TOPEK, the Petitioner provided a certificate indicating that he 
became a member of the association in October 2021 after completing the "TOTBID-TOPEK Board 
Examination" in September 2016 and June 2021. The record also contains a document titled "TOTEK 
Directive" which describes TOTEK as a "sub-working group ofTOTBID," which has its own council 
assembly, board ofdirectors and working groups. This directive sets forth the structure ofthe TOTEK 
council assembly and board, the duties they perform, and the minimum qualifications for positions on 
these governing bodies but does not expressly state the general requirements or process for admitting 
regular members to TOTEK. 
Section IV, Articles 13 and 14 ofthe TOTEK Directive discuss the TOTEK Certification Examination, 
noting that the exam is given in two stages, and those that successfully complete the examination 
receive the TOTEK certificate. While this directive indicates that candidates need to provide certain 
information to be admitted to the certificate exam, it does not specify what other information is 
collected and considered, nor does it indicate that receipt of the TOTEK certificate alone conveys 
membership. Even if we were to conclude that every candidate who passes the examination is 
admitted as a member of TOTEK, the record provides insufficient support for the Petitioner's claim 
that passing a standard examination in one's medical specialty is an "outstanding achievement" in and 
of itself. It is unclear what, if any, other factors are considered as a condition of membership and 
whether a candidate's achievements must otherwise be judged as "outstanding" by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence of his membership in TOTBID along with this association's 
bylaws, which directly address its membership requirements and procedures. The bylaws indicate that 
principal members are "those who adopt the subject and purpose of the association and provide 
material and moral support to its activities[;] those who want to be present; orthopedic and 
traumatology specialists with legal capacity to act ...." The bylaws state that candidates must submit 
a written application and are accepted "with the proposal of the member and the decision of the board 
of directors." The Petitioner emphasized that, based on these requirements, "only an expert working 
in the field of Orthopedics and Traumatology" can successfully apply, and, given that applicants must 
have a reference and be endorsed by the board of directors, "it is evident that TOTBID requires 
outstanding achievements from their members." 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in thel IHealth Workers 
Association and thel I Sport Club but did not pursue this claim in response to the Director's RFE. Neveitheless, 
we note the record does not contain evidence of the requirements for membership in these associations and therefore the 
Petitioner did not establish that his membership satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
3 
The record does not provide sufficient support for the Petitioner's claim that TOTBID requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized experts in the field, as an essential condition for 
membership. Although the submitted evidence reflects that TOTBID membership applications are 
ultimately reviewed by the association's board of directors, it does not indicate what specific criteria 
the board considers, what, if any, achievements are required, and whether such achievements must be 
judged as outstanding in order for a favorable determination to be made on a membership application. 
The Petitioner also documented his membership in the '.____________ __. branch of 
TOTBID and provided a copy of the member registration form for this branch listing the documentary 
requirements for registration. Prospective branch members must document that they have worked in 
this orthopedic specialization for at least two years, participated in at least two scientific meetings in 
the field ofl Ipublished two journal articles in this field ( or had two manuscripts 
accepted by journals), and provide references from two existing branch members. The record reflects 
that membership in this TOTBID branch has additional requirements beyond those for membership in 
TOTBID, and that such requirements ensure that accepted members are active in thel II I specialty and have published or presented some research in the field. However, the 
evidence does not document the association's process for reviewing membership applications or 
establish that only prospective members who are judged by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field are admitted. We cannot conclude based on 
the evidence submitted that participating in two scientific meetings or publishing two articles rises to 
the level of "outstanding achievements" in the field. 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the Turkish Medical Malpractice 
Association, along with a copy of the association's charter, with an English translation. The 
association is described as "an association of doctors and other allied health professionals within the 
medical and pharmacy profession." The association's charter describes the "Right to Become a 
Member and Membership Procedures" at Article 5; however, the English translation of this portion of 
the document is truncated at the bottom of the page, with some information missing. The missing 
information appears to be the section discussing the conditions for membership, as the following page 
begins with the statement: "Every natural and legal person who meets the conditions has the right to 
become a member of the association. No reference is required, individual application is sufficient." 
Based on the submitted documentation, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Turkish Medical 
Malpractice Association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence of his membership in the .___________ __,of the 
Union of Turkish Physicians which is part of the Turkish Medical Association, along with the laws of 
the association. The Petitioner emphasized that members must be medical school graduates authorized 
to practice medicine within the borders of Turkey, and notes that the membership registration form 
requires details about the applicant such as medical school graduation date, specialist degree details, and 
details about their employment. However, an association that admits members based solely on factors 
such as a minimum level of education or employment in a specific occupation is not considered to be an 
association that admits members based on outstanding achievements. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing evaluation of evidence submitted 
in support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
Without evidence indicating that the associations that granted him membership require outstanding 
achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international 
experts, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support ofthis criterion, the Petitioner provided evidence that he was a guest on programs aired on the 
Turkish television channels STAR TV and CNN Turk TV and that he was interviewed for articles 
published online by the Turkish newspapers~--------------------~ and on the website of CNN Turk TV. 
The Director acknowledged that the evidence reflects that the Petitioner has been interviewed about bone 
pain, bone tumors and pathological fractures, and that he provided information about carpal tunnel 
syndrome in a short, televised segment. The Director determined, however, that the subject ofthe articles 
and televised segments was to inform readers and viewers about these specific medical issues, not to 
discuss the Petitioner and his work in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted 
"several published materials" that are about him and relate to his work in orthopedics, traumataology and 
cancer research. However, he does not address the Director's specific reasons for concluding that he did 
not meet this criterion. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the submitted published materials and televised segments 
are about the symptoms, origin o±: and treatment for conditions such as bone cancer, carpal tunnel 
syndrome and pathological bone fractures, as opposed to published materials about the Petitioner. While 
these informative articles and interviews identify the Petitioner by name, identify his medical specialty, 
and quote him, do not discuss him, his background, his clinical practice or research, or otherwise address 
his work in the field. Any materials a petitioner submits must demonstrate the value of their work and 
contributions. While published materials submitted under this criterion need not be solely about the 
individual and their work, any material covering a broader topic should include a substantial discussion 
ofthe person's work in the field and mention the petitioner in relation to the work. See generally 6 USC IS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). The fact that the Petitioner was invited to speak as an expert on topics 
related to his medical specialty is noted and may be relevant in a final merits determination, where we 
consider whether the individual has sustained acclaim and has been recognized for their achievements. 
However, the published materials provided do not satisfy the plain language ofthe regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that he has been the subject of published material 
about him and his work in his field, he did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his published research articles and book 
chapter, citation evidence for his published work, evidence of his participation in conferences 
5 
(including evidence that he received a 1 taward in 2016), evidence of university classes he 
has taught, training certificates, and letters of support from experts in the field. The Director 
considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has made original contributions ofmajor significance in this field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish that he satisfies this criterion. For 
the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director's determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others 
working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in the 
field may be probative of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner references his completion of training and certificate programs in his field and asserts 
that "all these certificates have made original scientific contributions of major significance to his field 
of expertise." Specifically, the Petitioner notes that "training certificates can provide researchers with 
valuable skills and knowledge that can contribute to their scientific work and the broader field," by 
improving their research methodology, introducing new techniques and technologies, expanding their 
knowledge basis, and providing networking and career advancement opportunities. While we do not 
dispute the value of ongoing professional training and development, the focus of this criterion is on 
the significance of an individual's existing original contributions and evidence that such contributions 
have already demonstrably influenced or impacted the field in a manner indicative of their major 
significance. Completion of specialized training with the goal of expanding one's knowledge and 
advancing one's career is not an original contribution in of itself. 
Regarding his teaching activities as a lecturer and associate professor, the Petitioner asserts that 
lecturers "provide a contribution to the academic field in which they work as they educate young 
people that are modem, inquisitive and equipped with all the qualifications." He provides evidence 
that he has taught courses intended for second year undergraduate students in physiotherapy and 
rehabilitation and fifth year medical students, noting that he "contributes to his academic field by 
raising medical students." While the evidence shows the Petitioner has contributed to his field by 
teaching advanced academic content and clinical skills to upper level medical students, the evidence 
does not establish how his teaching activities represent an original contribution of major significance 
in his field, or how such activities had an impact that reached beyond the students who enrolled in his 
courses. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has published journal articles and an academic book chapter 
and delivered poster and paper presentations at conferences in his field, noting that such activities "are 
crucial to the advancement ofresearch in any field." We agree that these activities provide researchers 
with platforms to disseminate their original research findings to a wider audience and potentially 
encourage farther research that advances the broader field. However, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of his articles in notable journals or textbooks or presentation of work 
at reputable medical conferences necessarily demonstrates that the field has recognized the major 
significance of his original contributions. For example, the Petitioner stated that "writing an academic 
book chapter is a significant undertaking that can have a major impact on a field of study," but he did 
not articulate how the specific book chapter that he authored, which appeared in a 2016 academic 
6 
textbook titledl Iis a significant contribution of major significance in his field. Publications 
and presentations satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but these activities alone are not 
sufficient to establish a researcher's eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); not every article 
published in a distinguished journal or conference automatically indicates a scientific contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
The record includes the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile showing that his published research 
articles had received 31 cumulative citations as of January 2023. The information from Google 
Scholar farther indicated that the Petitioner's three highest cited articles, published in 2020, 2018 and 
2021, received 7, 6, and 5 citations, respectively, and that he had eight additional publications that 
received at least one citation.2 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken 
interest in an individual's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown 
that the number ofcitations for any ofhis published work is commensurate with contributions ofmajor 
significance in the field. He did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his 
articles, nor has he shown that the number of citations is unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Without comparative 
statistical evidence indicating the frequency at which other articles in the Petitioner's field are cited, 
for example, he has not demonstrated that the number of citations received by his published and 
presented work is indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of evidence that his paper titled'! d 
' received th~ 1----.------------------------------~~-~Award at the 26th National Turkish Orthopedics and Traumatology Congress. The award 
undoubtedly recognized the quality and originality of the research, but the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that it recognizes the work as an original 
contribution ofmajor significance in the field. This awarded paper does not appear on the Petitioner's 
Google Scholar profile and the record does not otherwise show that it has been highly cited or 
provoked widespread commentary among others performing research in the field. Further, the 
Petitioner does not specifically articulate how the research that earned him aI I award has 
been recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather he broadly states that 
receiving such an award "can have a profound impact on [a researcher's] personal and professional 
development as well as on their field as a whole." 
Additionally, the Petitioner points to his submission of several recommendation letters from experts 
in the field. 3 These experts discussed the Petitioner's specialized training and research in the field of 
orthopedics, oncology, and traumatology, but their statements do not demonstrate that his original 
work is of major significance in the field. As discussed below, the reference letters do not offer 
sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, 
to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that 
have been of major significance. 
For example, Dr. G-M-, a medical school professor who served as the Petitioner's academic supervisor 
for his specialization degree, indicates that he worked with the Petitioner on four different research 
2 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations for each of these individual articles were self-citations. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
projects which were "published in high-quality academic journals and presented at the prestigious 
congress." Dr. G-M-briefly describes these projects but does not explain how the Petitioner's 
published work has impacted the field in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes a contribution of 
major significance. We recognize that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in 
some way to be accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every research study that 
broadens knowledge in a particular field constitutes a contribution of major significance in that field. 
Dr. G-M-further praises the Petitioner's research skills, states that he continues to work on "a very 
important project on orthopedics and traumatology," and opines that his work is "excellent, novel and 
unsurpassed," in part due to its "direct practical applications to the health of many." However, his 
letter does not elaborate on the Petitioner's "very important project" and its "direct practical 
applications" and the significance of these contributions to their shared field of endeavor. 
Dr. E-U-, who serves as the director of a molecular cancer research center at a Turkish university, 
states that the Petitioner has made significant contributions to the field of cancer research. 
Specifically, he notes that the Petitioner's 2018 article published in Hand and Microsurgery Journal 
in 2018 represents "a very important contribution in the field" because he found that most hand tumors 
are benign and should not be treated prior to receiving biopsy results. Dr. E-U-states that this article 
"has been cited by many researchers in the field," and generally asserts, without offering specifics, 
that the Petitioner has authored "many other significant research articles and has conducted 
outstanding research with extraordinary findings, contributing to the field in a variety of ways." The 
Petitioner's Google Scholar profile indicates that the referenced 2018 article had been cited six times 
as of 2023, but this evidence alone does not provide sufficient support for Dr. E-U's statement that it 
has been cited at a level indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, Dr. K-O-, head of orthopedics and traumatology surgical sciences at a Turkish medical 
school, discusses the breadth of the Petitioner's academic and clinical activities, noting his receipt of 
al Iaward, his publication of a book chapter, his participation in national and international 
conferences and workshops, his teaching role as an associate professor, and their co-authorship of two 
articles published in 2022. With respect to these articles, he states that he believes their studies "will 
be beneficial for the field of orthopedics and traumatology" but does not further elaborate. While Dr. 
K-O-further states that the Petitioner "has made and continues to make significant ... contributions" 
to the field, he did not offer specific examples indicating that his published or presented work or 
teaching activities have provoked widespread commentary from others working in the field or have 
otherwise been impactful to the extent that they are of major significance in his field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from Drs. P-R-, J-J-and S-S-. Although these 
letters praise the Petitioner's work and expertise in the orthopedics and traumatology medical 
specialty, they do not demonstrate how his original contributions are "of major significance in the 
field." Instead, the letters reference the importance of the Petitioner's works as indicated by their 
publication in professional journals and presentation at medical conferences. While the selection of 
the Petitioner's articles for publication in professional journals and conferences verifies the originality 
of his work, it does not necessarily reflect that his research and findings are considered of major 
significance. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through his citation history or other 
relevant evidence that his work, once published or presented, has been highly cited or provoked 
widespread commentary. 
8 
I For example, Dr. J-J-highlights the Petitioner's 2021 article'~------------~Ias "one of the most comprehensive and important research to prove that 
the ilium is the most common metastatic bone region of the pelvis." However, the record reflects that 
the referenced paper had only one citation as of 2023 and contains no other evidence that would 
corroborate Dr. J-J-'s statement regarding the importance or influence of this paper in their shared 
field. Dr. P-R-similarly highlights two ofthe Petitioner's 2021 publications as representing important 
and "very impactfol research contributions," but the referenced articles had received only one or two 
citations and he did not otherwise elaborate on how the Petitioner's published work represented 
original contributions of major significance. 
Overall, the submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Detailed letters from 
experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's contribution may provide 
valuable context for evaluating a claimed original contribution of major significance. However, such 
letters are more persuasive when they specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance, and when the record contains documentation corroborating the claimed significance. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). While some of the submitted letters are lengthy, they do 
not specifically describe the significance of the Petitioner's original contributions and are not 
sufficiently corroborated by other evidence in the record. 
Without sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that he meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. 4 Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, although the Petitioner has 
achieved professional success as a clinical physician, professor, and academic researcher, the record 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 
does not demonstrate that he has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and 
that he is one ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 25, 2023 In Re: 28355068 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief executive in the field of small business development , seeks classification under 
the employment-based , fust-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they 
demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim and, through extensive documentation, 
recognition of their achievements in their fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that that the Petitioner met three of the ten eligibility criteria found at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient documentation to establish his 
eligibility under two ( ofthe ten) regulatory criteria; namely, evidence ofthe alien's participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization for which classification is sought; and evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly 
articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media. However, the 
Director determined that he did not meet any of the remaining eight criteria. The Petitioner provided 
evidence under the following criteria: the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields; the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field; the 
alien's performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation ; and the alien's command of a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provided a "covering letter," listing six points: 1. Benefits for the USA; 
2. Associations; 3. Refereeing; 4. Contribution to the field of activity; 5. Contribution to the company; 
and 6. Income. 1 The Petitioner's only argument, which relates to the high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), is as follows: 
"[ a ]fter receiving the RFE, in the income section, here the income is presented 
additionally (to the contract received in the case dated 09/21/2021), which significantly 
increases the average monthly salary reflected in the "Reference for calculating the 
payment of bonuses and remunerations" Also presented is an additional agreement to 
the contract and certificates of bonuses." 
Citing to Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582 (BIA 1988), the Director noted discrepancies in the record 
related to the Petitioner's monthly salary. In the documents he initially submitted, his salary is 230,000 
rubles, and in response to the RFE, it appears that his salary is 207,000 rubles. Moreover, the Director 
explained that the record lacked objective evidence to establish the Petitioner's high salary or 
remuneration relative to other chief executives. We agree. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's concerns regarding the lack of objectivity in 
the evidence or the discrepancy in his salary. As the Director pointed out in the RFE, the Rosstat 
information is related to development directors and the Petitioner has not shown that his position, and 
those of a development director, are comparable, such that the salary of a development director is a 
proper basis for comparison. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high 
salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the 
field. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 
420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser 
duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). Here, the comparative salary data is insufficient objective evidence for comparison to 
his salary and position. 
In addition, if the Petitioner wishes us to consider evidence of remuneration in the form of year-end 
and quarterly bonuses, he must also provide objective evidence of the year-end and quarterly bonuses 
offered others in his field in order for us to evaluate whether his remuneration is "significantly high" 
1 The evidence, in the form ofa personal statement dated January 20, 2023, provided to establish points 1-5 was previously 
submitted in response to the request for evidence (RFE). 
2 
in relation to others. Here, the Petitioner has not met his burden under the plain language of the 
regulation. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Because the Petitioner did not raise any other arguments or provide evidence related to the other 
eligibility criteria, we consider them waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 
(BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 26, 2023 In Re: 28559467 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business sustainability specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy at 
least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled 
only two criteria -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he meets five additional evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues: 
. . . [He] submitted the International A ward DAAD, and "best worker byl I~------~I The former, which USCIS confirmed to be an appreciable 
achievement for the [Petitioner], but erred in concluding that they both cannot be 
considered as a nationally or internationally recognized award. The letter from the 
Director of the [U]niversity I I simply satisfied this criterion requirement .... 
The [Petitioner] was one of five selected out of sixty-seven applicant[ s] across Africa, 
meeting with a very strict selection criteria number of other candidates for the award. 
The selection criteria in awarding it is enough evidence showing the reputation of the 
award, and the [Petitioner] has proved this by the submission of a confirmation letter 
from Professor [P-Q-] and the awarding organization. 
2 
First, USCIS determines if the person was the recipient of prizes or awards. 1 The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the 
awards or prizes comma as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
Second, USCIS determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
As it relates to the "Best Worker" fromD the Petitioner presented a photograph of the Petitioner 
with a caption stating "2014 Best Worker" and "Senior Category" and a certificate. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence regarding the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. 
As it pertains to DAAD, the Petitioner submitted a letter from Professor P-Q-who stated: 
[DAAD] provides scholarships and grants to young academics and scientists who have 
distinguished themselves through their study and research work through its partnership 
with Universities across the world. 
In 2017 [The Petitioner] was one of five selected out of sixty-seven applicants from 
across Africa. The scholarship financed his tuition in research work from 201 7 to 2021. 
The selection criteria included scholarly and development relevance as well as 
excellent academic credentials. The program is directed at outstanding researchers, 
policymakers and practitioners that are working on pressing development issues. 
The letter, however, does not discuss how the field views the scholarship or why the field considers 
the scholarship as a nationally or internationally prize or award for excellence. While many scholastic 
awards do not have the requisite level of recognition, there may be some that are nationally or 
internationally recognized as awards for excellence such that they may satisfy the requirements ofthis 
criterion.5 For example, an award available only to persons with a single locality, employer, or school 
may have little national or international recognition, while an award open to members ofa well-known 
national institution (including an Rl or R2 doctoral university) or professional organization may be 
nationally recognized. 6 In this case, although the letter provides some background information, the 
Petitioner did not establish the national or international recognition for excellence of the scholarship 
in the field. 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
4 Id. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 7 The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 8 
The Petitioner contends that he "submitted evidence showing that he is a member of !ASSIST 
[International Association for Social Science Information Services and Technology], I 
Committee and I IGlobal [H]ealth Catalyst Summit Committee." Although he indicates that he 
submitted evidence of membership, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision, make 
further arguments, or claim that membership with the .__________ _,committees requires 
outstanding achievements and is judged by recognized national or international experts as required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 
(BIA 2012)). Thus, we need not address these previous claims. 
Regarding !ASSIST, the Petitioner references his submission of a letter from W-N-A-who stated: 
[!ASSIST] is a professional body focused on research data in the social sciences. 
Practitioners in the discipline may apply to become a member. Membership 
applications are reviewed by the membership committee. Current members are 
affiliated with academic, governmental, non-profit, and commercial institutions from 
around the world. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the letter shows that membership with !ASSIST 
requires outstanding achievements and recognized national or international experts determine 
membership. In fact, based on the letter, membership requires practitioners in the discipline rather 
than outstanding achievements. Moreover, the letter does not explain whether the membership 
committee is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
4 I 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), users determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 9 users then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 10 Examples ofrelevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 11 
The Petitioner contends: 
[He] submitted original contributions which is [sic] of major significance in the field 
of business sustainability -"The I I 
implementing partners in Northern, upper east and upper west regions." 
[The Petitioner] developed and implemented the .____________ ____. 
I I a custom web-based software which has been in use for the past 5 years. Over 
the years,I I has been the medium ofreporting for FSW and MSW activities. 
In the words of the [Petitioner] who develop [sic] I Ihas the capability to 
determine the cost of reaching target population to build up the aggregate to plan 
appropriately. 
The record contains I IUser Manual, a Training Report from the .___________ _, and 
a recommendation letter. 12 According to the training report: 
The is a financial information system used by 
,____ _, to record and track rceipy and payments of funds related to HIV and AIDS 
[program] implementation. facilitates the collection, reporting and analysis of 
financial and [program] data for decision making. 
I Iis a custom web-based software and has been in use for the past 5 years. Over 
the years,~ has been the medium of reporting for FSW and MSM activities. 
In addition, a letter from R-N-A-, stated that the Petitioner "has developed bespoke software~
!--~ 
which optimi[z]ed HIV and AIDS project expenditure in Ghana through the automation of unit costs 
for HIV prevention, [behavior] change communication and mitigation expenditure" and "[t]hese 
interventions led to significant savings in the implementation of HIV grants in country." 
While the evidence reflects the Petitioner's original contribution, the Petitioner did not establish 
I Iqualification as a contribution of major significance in the field. Based on the documentation 
presented by the Petitioner,! Iusage and impact is limited tol IAnalysis under this criterion 
9 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
io Id. 
11 Id. 
12 Although the Petitioner submitted several other recommendation letters, only one discussesc=] 
5 
focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, significant contributions to the 
field. 13 For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance 
from others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others 
work in that field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor. 14 Similarly, evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted 
significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original 
contribution to the field. 15 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate, for example, how~has been 
widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, the letter from R-N-A-briefly indicates I I utilization and generally asserts to 
"significant savings" without further elaborating and providing specific details showing how ~I-~ 
impacted the field in a major way. Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and 
significance ofthe person's contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed 
original contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation 
corroborating the claimed significance. 16 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's 
contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's 
knowledge and expertise. 17 In this case, the letter lacks specific, detailed information explaining how 
D"optimi[z]ed HIV and AIDS project expenditure" and "led to significant savings." USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
USCIS first determines whether the person has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or division or department of an organization or establishment. 18 Then, 
USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which 
the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 19 The Petitioner 
claims eligibility for this criterion based on his role withc=]and references a letter from Dr. A-E­
A-and a certificate from Ofor "Best Worker," discussed under the award criterion above. 
13 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
14 Id. 
is Id. 
16 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
17 Id. 
18 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
19 Id. 
6 
In evaluating such evidence, officers examine whether the role is ( or was) leading or critical.20 Dr. 
A-E-A-stated: 
Over the period, he has been a key member of the team developing and overseeing the 
successful implementation offour ( 4) strategic plans for HIV and AIDS in Ghana (2001 
-2005; 2006 -2010); (2011 -2015); 2016 - 2020). 
[The Petitioner] has played a key role in the development and deployment of financial 
management systems to support interventions averaging over 100 million U.S. dollars 
per annum. His contributions to the national response include the development of an 
innovative remote financial management system to provide real time/live access to 
implementing partner data. The gains in time and financial resources of this online 
platform are ploughed back into programs to improve access to care and supJort forl 
communities. He has also been pivotal in developing partnerships which sustain 
as it coordinates a multi-sectoral national response to HIV and AIDS in Ghana. 
For a leading role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 21 A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), rfact[ leading. Here, the letter does not 
indicate that the Petitioner performed in a leading role with The letter, for instance, does not 
mention the Petitioner's job title or otherwise describe duties indicative of a leading role. 
For a critical role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in 
a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities 
or those of a division or department of the organization more establishment.22 It is not the title of the 
person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 23 Although the letter describes the Petitioner's role as "Key" and briefly lists some ofthe 
Petitioner's contributions, the letter does not farther elaborate and explain how those contributions 
were significantly important to I !activities. This is one criterion where letters from persons with 
personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, 
division, or department was leading or critical. 24 In addition, while the "Best Worker" certificate 
reflects presentation to the Petitioner "in recognition and appreciation for [his] relentless and dedicated 
service," performing admirably in one's work does not necessarily also mean performance in a critical 
capacity. The document, for example, broadly shows that the Petitioner "maintained excellence in the 
discharge of [his] duties and contributed significantly to the work ofl Ifor the year 2014] without 
indicating what duties he performed and how he contributed significantly. 
Moreover, although the Petitioner claims that the submitted documentation "show[ s] the reputation of 
the issuing organization," neither the certificate nor the letter discusses or reflects the distinguished 
20 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
21 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
22 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
23 Id. 
24 Id. 
7 
reputation ofO The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of 
itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a 
distinguished reputation exists. 25 Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an 
organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 26 
Hre, thl Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation establishing the distinguished reputation 
27of 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner argues the submission of his earnings report, comparative table, and support letter 
demonstrates eligibility for this criterion. USCIS determines whether the person's salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 28 
The Petitioner submitted a document entitled, "Estimated Earnings Report and Comparative Table," 
claiming that the Petitioner received an annual income of $56,087 in 2021. Further, the report/table 
also asserts that the average annual income for "Accountants & Finance Managers" from 
glassdoor.com and payscale.com is $10,414 and $9,964, respectively. In addition, the Petitioner 
provided a letter from J-O-D-, chartered accountant, who opined that "the declared annual earnings of 
[the Petitioner] exceed the income levels for equivalent levels of skill and experience in Ghana by a 
factor of 6." 
Although the letter indicates the Petitioner's "income [ w ]as verified by supporting pay slips and 
contractual agreements," the Petitioner did not submit this evidence to substantiate his income, 
employer(s), and occupation. Evidence relevant to demonstrating high remuneration may include, but 
is not limited to: tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for 
services; contract job offer letter, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services; 
and comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as geographical or position­
appropriate compensation surveys. 29 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide the referenced evidence from glassdoor.com and 
payscale.com to corroborate the claims from the letter and the report/table. When evaluating whether 
a comparison between the beneficiary's documented remuneration and the remuneration in the survey 
is accurate, the following considerations, among others, may be relevant: the description of the 
occupation, the validity of the survey, location and currency, and salary rate being measured. 30 
25 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
26 Id. 
27 Mirriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person." Id. 
28 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
29 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
30 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 
Furthermore, according to his resume, the Petitioner has been employed as a "Business Sustainability 
& Strategy Expert" since January 2021 and a "Disbursement Manager & Lead Investigator" since 
January 2009. Yet, the letter and report/table compare the Petitioner's 2021 earnings to the earnings 
of "Accountants & Finance Managers." The Petitioner did not show compare his income in relation 
to others in the field. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
In this case, the Petitioner did not offer sufficient evidence showing his earnings, nor did the Petitioner 
provide sufficient comparative salary data, with the appropriate occupation, establishing he 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As 
such, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies at least three evidentiary criteria. Therefore, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve this issues31 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely 
restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 
2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining 
that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal 
v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one ofthe most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
31 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
9 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing 
him among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: OCT. 27, 2023 In Re: 28563276 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a provider of business, computing, and human capital management solutions, seeks to 
classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim, and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. In addition, the individual must seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability and their entry must be of 
substantial prospective benefit to the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recogmt10n of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the 
petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets 
at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is employed by the Petitioner, a leading provider of human capital management 
products and services, as Vice President -Product Management, Small Business Services. The 
Petitioner asserts that she is eligible for classification as individual of extraordinary ability in business, 
specifically in the field of corporate product strategy. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets 
three criteria: 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Performance in leading or critical roles; and 
• High salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only one of the three claimed criteria. 
Specifically, the Director concluded that she has served in leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, and thus satisfied the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish 
the Beneficiary's original contributions ofmajor significance in her field and her high salary in relation 
to others, thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix). The Petitioner contends that 
the Director did not folly and correctly review the information and documentary evidence submitted 
in support of the petition and in response to a request for evidence (RFE), and "applied arbitrary 
evidentiary standards, linguistic interpretations and definitions not found in regulations, guidance or 
practice." After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary satisfies three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3)(v). 
2 
In determining that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion, the 
Director stated that the record contained "no documentary evidence" such as "published material 
patents, copyright or trademark material" to corroborate the Beneficiary's contributions, noting that 
without such evidence, the Petitioner had not illustrated "the originality of the contribution." The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted two letters from company executives, as well as 
"other correspondences," "website print screens" and "other documents" but concluded that the 
evidence was insufficient to establish the major significance of the Beneficiary's business-related 
contributions. However, the Director's analysis is limited to discussion of a single letter submitted at 
the time of filing and does not address other evidence relevant to this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that the evidence the Director characterized as "other correspondence" and "other 
documents" was submitted to corroborate its claims regarding the Beneficiary's significant 
contributions and was not considered. 
In evaluating whether a given beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance, 
relevant evidence may include, but is not limited to, published materials about the significance oftheir 
work and letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance ofthe person's original 
contribution. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
( discussing factors to be considered in evaluating initial evidence of extraordinary ability under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Here, the Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary initiated strategies for 
development of its small business product line which have been influential in the human capital 
management industry and impactful in the broader field of business. The Petitioner further contended 
that the Beneficiary's product development strategies and initiatives have a far-reaching impact on 
how small businesses manage their human resources functions, due to the company's market position 
as a leader serving over 800,000 clients in this sector. The Petitioner's president emphasized in her 
letter that the company's "actions set the benchmark for the human capital industry and how it serves 
its clients" and that the Beneficiary was responsible for several product strategies and initiatives that 
received industry-wide notice. 
The record contains ample evidence establishing the Petitioner's market position and reach in its 
industry. In addition, the Petitioner submitted detailed, credible letters from its senior executives 
explaining the Beneficiary's original contributions to its product strategies and product offerings in 
the small business sector as well as evidence that new product features, prominent partnerships and 
other innovative strategies and tools introduced by the Beneficiary have been featured in industry 
publications. The Petitioner also submitted probative letters from executives at other companies who 
explain that they deem the Beneficiary's strategies and techniques for product management to be best 
practices and, as such, have introduced similar initiatives within their own enterprises. These letters 
and other evidence corroborate the Petitioners claims regarding the significance of the Beneficiary's 
contributions. After considering all evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that 
the Petitioner established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In determining that the evidence was insufficient to establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, 
the Director observed that she has received a base salary as high as $220,000 for fiscal year 2021. The 
3 
Director acknowledged various evidentiary exhibits containing comparative wage data but concluded 
that the data provided was "not based on an individual in a comparable field," "is not based on the 
years that the beneficiary earned the salary," and was limited to data showing "average salary" 
information for "those performing work in a related but distinct occupation." On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director mischaracterized or overlooked some of the evidence submitted in support of 
this criterion. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner met its burden to establish that the 
Beneficiary, more likely than not, has commended a high salary in relation to others in her field. 
First, although the Director determined that the Beneficiary's highest documented salary was 
$220,000, the Petitioner provided evidence that her annual base salary, as of August 2022, was 
$279,272. The Petitioner's evidence included comparative data from Department of Labor sources 
for both financial and marketing managers. The Petitioner conceded that the nature of the 
Beneficiary's role as a divisional vice president for product management is not an exact match for 
either of these occupational classifications. However, it also provided a Wilson Towers Watson 
(WTW) salary survey that focuses on "Senior Group Managers" in the product management discipline 
within large international organizations and which is specific to the geographic area where the 
Beneficiary works. We disagree with the Director's finding that this survey provided only "average 
salaries" or that the provided data was for a distinctly different occupation. The WTW survey indicates 
a 2022 90th percentile base salary of $248,993 for the referenced occupation. Based on a comparison 
ofthe Beneficiary's $279,272 base salary to this data, we find the Petitioner met its burden to establish 
that she has commanded a high salary and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary satisfies the initial evidence requirements for 
this classification by meeting three ofthe criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), it has overcome the only 
stated ground for denial ofthe petition. However, meeting three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) does not, by itself, establish eligibility for the requested classification. Accordingly, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision that includes a 
final merits determination consistent with Kazarian. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii), and (ix), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of the 
evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of her field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 01, 2023 In Re: 28128980 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sound engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirement for the classification through evidence ofa major, 
internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed a subsequent appeal, as well as a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. The matter is again before us on a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
In our previous decision, we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of either a 
motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. Regarding the motion to reopen, we determined that while 
the documents intended to address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) had not been 
previously submitted, they were not new since they presented the same information contained in 
evidence already in the record. In addition, we acknowledged the submission of evidence related to 
membership in the Russian Music Union, but explained that the Petitioner had not previously claimed 
he met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and it was, therefore, not appropriately considered on 
motion. Regarding the motion to reconsider, we determined that "broadly disagreeing with our 
conclusions" was insufficient to meet the requirements of the motion. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Relying on the instructions to Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 1 and Chapter 3.8 ofthe AAO 
Practice Manual, the Petitioner argues that neither one "restricts [the] definition of 'additional 
evidence"' and, thus, we should have addressed the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and 
(ix). He contends that not considering this material was contrary to AAO policy and asserts that our 
analysis in the previous decision "does not make sense." 
However, Chapter 3.8 of the AAO Practice Manual concerns appeals, whereas our most recent 
decision dismissed the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The portion of our 
decision discussing the evidence submitted in support of these three evidentiary criteria focused not 
on whether this additional evidence should be accepted on appeal, but on whether it constituted "new" 
facts per 8 C.F.R. 103.5(a)(2), the regulation concerning motions to reopen. The Petitioner does not 
contest our conclusion that since these previously unsubmitted documents only restated facts that were 
already in the record, they did not constitute "new" facts and, therefore, did not meet the requirements 
for a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner also asserts that our reliance upon two precedent decisions of the Board oflmmigration 
Appeals ("the Board") was inappropriate because they did not involve the "processing of petitions for 
benefits." Citing to Matter ofM-F-O-, we explained that he had not only failed to address the evidence 
of his membership in the Russian Music Union in his brief, but he also had not previously claimed 
eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).2 Regardless, any new facts submitted on 
motion must establish eligibility at the time offiling. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter oflzummi, 
22 I&N Dec. 169, 175-76 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg. 
Comm'r 1971).3 
While he acknowledges that the Board's precedent decisions are binding on U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services in cases involving the same issues, he argues that our reliance upon Matter of 
Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496,496 n.l (BIA 2018), to confirm our conclusion that issues not discussed on 
appeal were deemed to be waived, was also inappropriate since that decision also involved removal 
proceedings and not the adjudication of petitions. The Petitioner asserts that we should have 
considered the exceptions he presented to the waiver of issues on appeal found in decisions from the 
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction due to his place of residence. The Petitioner 
does not, however, cite to precedent decisions supporting his contention that the waiver of issues on 
appeal in removal proceedings should be treated differently than the same issue in the adjudication of 
petitions. Therefore, he has not established that our citation to Board precedent decisions in support 
of our conclusion was contrary to law or policy. 
Further, the general rule in the Ninth Circuit is that issues not raised in an appeal brief are deemed to 
be waived. See Koerner v. Grigas, 328 F.3d 1039, 1048 (9th Cir. 2003) (finding that matters not 
specifically and distinctly argued in an opening brief are not ordinarily considered on appeal); Rizk v. 
Holder, 629 F.3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding that issues not raised in a brief are deemed 
waived). The Petitioner generally states that he renews his arguments from his previous motion 
1 The Petitioner does not, however, further explain how our decision was inconsistent with the instructions. 
2 See Matter ofM-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021), in which the Board refused to consider an appellant's 
humanitarian claims presented for the first time on appeal. 
3 The petition was filed on August 11, 2020 and the Petitioner did not become a member the Russian Music Union until 
October 28, 2020. 
2 
regarding exceptions to the waiver ofissues found in Ninth Circuit decisions. But while he previously 
cited to decisions supporting exceptions to this general rule, based upon prejudice to the opposing 
party and manifest injustice, he did not explain in his previous motion, nor does he in this motion, how 
or why they should apply here. 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy and was incorrect based upon the record of proceedings at the 
time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 08, 2023 In Re: 28423802 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professional soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either through 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by satisfying at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professional soccer player who transitioned to professional coaching after 
his retirement. He 
has served as the head coach and technical director of professional soccer teams in 
Venezuela, Ecuador, and Colombia, and as the head coach of the Venezuelan men's U20 and senior 
national teams between 2000 and 2007. The record reflects that, in addition to coaching, he has been 
asked to lend his expertise to soccer development projects undertaken by the Venezuelan Olympic 
Committee and CONMEBOL (the South American Football Confederation, the governing body ofthe 
sport in South America), and to serve as a lecturer on coaching techniques at various conferences. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), 
(v), (viii), and (ix), based on his receipt of nationally recognized awards, his memberships in 
associations in his field, published material about him, his performance as a judge ofthe work ofothers 
in the field, his original contributions to the sport, his leading or critical roles with organizations that 
enjoy a distinguished reputation, and the comparatively high salaries he has commanded as a coach. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by demonstrating his 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national 
or international experts, and by providing evidence ofhis participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers 
in his field ofexpertise. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv). The record supports this determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence he submitted in 
support of several additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He places particular emphasis 
on the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence of his performance in leading 
or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner held a leading or critical role within the Venezuelan Football Federation 
as the long-time head coach of the Venezuelan men's national team and acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted supporting evidence intended to establish the distinguished reputation of the 
federation and team. However, the Director ultimately dismissed this evidence after determining that 
the Petitioner did not submit sufficiently demonstrate that the submitted newspaper, magazine and 
televised coverage of the team were published in major media outlets, a requirement that does not 
2 
appear in the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director therefore 
found insufficient evidence to establish the distinguished reputation ofthe organization that employed 
the Petitioner in a leading or critical role. 
The record contains evidence that the Venezuelan Football Federation is recognized as the national 
governing body of the sport by football's international governing body (FIFA) and that the national 
team, comprised of top players representing their country in international competition, enjoyed 
favorable domestic and international media coverage during the Petitioner's tenure as coach, with 
much of the team's unprecedented success attributed to him. We conclude the previously submitted 
evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that he meets the initial evidence requirement for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria. He has therefore overcome the basis for the denial ofhis petition. 1 However, as noted above, 
meeting the initial evidence requirement does not suffice to establish eligibility for this classification. 
We will therefore remand the matter to the Director to make a final merits determination in the first 
instance. 
In doing so, the Director should consider all evidence submitted in support ofthe petition to determine 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), 
(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. This review should include evidence that was not found 
to meet the requirements of any individual criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For example, the record indicates that the Beneficiary has been showcased in books documenting the 
rise of soccer's popularity in Venezuela since the early 2000s, has been profiled by CNN Espanol, and 
was featured in a documentary about the Venezuelan men's national teams that competed in 
international competition during his tenure as the team's coach. While the Director determined that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the criterion related to published materials at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), this evidence is nevertheless relevant to an evaluation of the Petitioner's claim that 
his achievements and contributions have been recognized in his field and that he has achieved national 
or international acclaim as a coach. 
The Director's review should also consider the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's 
appeal. After reviewing the record in its entirety, the Director shall issue a new decision. 
1 Because he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary standards, a final merits determination is required under 
Kazarian. Accordingly, we need not review the Director's findings regarding the criteria relating to the Petitioner's 
awards, published materials about him, his original contributions to the sport, and his past earnings as a coach. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary 
to their decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach an alternative 
appellate issue where an applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested relief). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 11, 2023 In Re: 28311126 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a blogger and social media influencer , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement for this classification, which 
requires documentation of a major, internationally recognized award or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner subsequently filed 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider , followed by a motion to reconsider. In both instances , 
the Director reaffirmed the denial of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ I03.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
The Petitioner has appealed the unfavorable decision on her motion to reconsider , dated March 30, 
2023, in which the Director stated: 
After a thorough review, USCIS finds that the motion satisfies the regulatory requirement 
for filing a motion to reopen and/or reconsider at Title 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) and 
103.5(a)(3). 
Therefore, USCIS grants the motion to reconsider the Form 1-140 of denied case I I 
After additional review of the record of proceeding, including your motion, users has 
determined that you have not established eligibility for the requested benefit. 
users is denying the approval of Form I-140. You will be receiving a decision letter 
under separate cover. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she did not receive a separate decision letter on her motion to 
reconsider and therefore, the Director failed to provide any substantive explanation regarding the basis 
for denial. 
The record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not issue a legally sufficient 
decision with respect to her motion to reconsider. The Petitioner's brief on motion alleged several 
errors in the Director's application of the regulatory criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to the facts 
presented and in the Director's interpretation ofthe plain language ofthose criteria. The decision does 
not address these arguments, and instead summarily concludes those arguments were insufficient to 
overcome the Director's reasons for denying the petition. Although the Director advised the Petitioner 
that she would receive a decision on the merits under separate cover, users records indicate that no 
separate decision was issued. 
An officer's written decision must folly explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 e.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reconsider and did 
not explain the specific reasons for affirming the denial, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to 
consider the Petitioner's substantive arguments on appeal. We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
decision dated March 30, 2023, and remand the matter for farther review and entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 13, 2023 In Re: 25983327 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability by meeting at least three of the ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner appealed the decision, the decision was withdrawn, 
and the matter was remanded for entry of a new decision. The Director reevaluated the record and 
denied the petition, concluding that the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner meets at least 
three of the ten criteria to establish eligibility for the requested classification . The Petitioner filed a 
second appeal, and we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision. In support of the motion, the 
Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly applied the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the criterion 
for EB-1 eligibility requiring evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
In our prior appeal decision, which we incorporate by reference, we noted that for a leading role, we 
look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment or a division or department thereof For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence 
establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome ofthe 
organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the organization or 
establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. We noted that the Petitioner asserted that he had played critical and 
leading roles in a number of productions for client companies on high level media projects for major 
corporations; we further noted the letters in the record containing details about the Petitioner's digital 
modeling work on these projects, including a video forl IWe determined that the evidence 
did not establish that his contracted roles on these projects were leading or critical for any organization or 
establishment with a distinguished reputation. We stated that individual campaigns and projects are not 
divisions or departments of an organization or establishment. Further, we concluded that the Petitioner 
had not established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments or 
divisions thereof We additionally noted that the Petitioner submitted no evidence to address whether the 
advertising agencies have a distinguished reputation; instead, it improperly relied on the prominence of 
some of the agencies' clients. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that we erred in excluding from consideration the Petitioner's work 
as part of a team, including I Ithat created a social media campaign for~------~ 
2 
.______________ ___. was designated as a finalist for a Shorty Award in the Mobile 
Campaign category. 1 Further, the Petitioner also indicates that we did not ro erly consider the 
Petitioner's efforts working through his employer, a visual effects 
studio, on an ad campaign sponsored by the~___. Olympic Committee . ._____. a creative agency, 
won a Silver Marketing Award for Craft in the Cinematography category from I I 
Communications' Marketing A wards, and I Iand the Petitioner are among many individuals and 
businesses credited on the award's website2 for their participation in developing the project. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserts on motion that we ignored his request to consider whether his efforts 
on these projects that resulted in awards constituted a critical role. We disagree. Our previous decision 
clearly articulated that, based on the evidence in the record, his efforts on these projects did not 
constitute a critical role. 
The Petitioner also asserts on motion that we improperly discounted the Petitioner's role atlI lbecause he was not part of a division or department of an organization or estab~l-is_h_m_e_n_t_.. 
The Petitioner states that the focus should be on whether he "played a critical role, and whether the 
contribution resulted in a significant outcome to the organization." He states that the term 
"organization" in the criterion is not strictly defined and may be interpreted, according to Merriam­
Webster,3 as an "administrative and functional structure (such as a business or a political party)." The 
Petitioner also states that the term "organization" may be interpreted, according to the Cambridge 
Dictionary,4 as "a group of people who work together in an organized way for a shared purpose." On 
that basis he contends that his contributions to I I should be recognized as 
evidence of his critical roles for organizations. 
Our previous decision did not "discount" the Petitioner's roles at Notably, we '-----------' 
addressed the Petitioner's work on various projects and stated: 
... on any given project, the Petitioner was part of a creative team that involved varying 
numbers ofother artists and technicians performing assigned roles. The Petitioner has not 
established that his roles, in particular, were critical to the organizations or to departments 
or divisions thereof Participation in a successful project is not automatically or 
presumptively a critical role for the organization, or a department or division of the 
organization, that undertook the project. 
A person's performance in a role determines whether the role is (or was) critical. We determined that 
the Petitioner did not meet his burden of proof with regard to whether any ofhis roles were critical. The 
evidence does not provide insight into how and in what manner the Petitioner's role as either a visual 
affects artist or animator was critical to a definable operational component or outcome of any specific 
organization. Thus, regardless of the definition of "organization" utilized, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently established his critical role in one. 
1 As explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner had previously acknowledged that thd campaign did not 
become a finalist for a Shorty A ward until after the petition's filing date. A petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.2(6)(1 ). 
2 See https://marketingawards.strategyonline.ca/winners/winner.__ __________ __. accessed July 31, 
2023. 
3 See https://merriam-webster.com/dictionary/organization. 
4 See https: //dictionary. cam bridge. org/us/ dictionary/ english/ organization. I
3 
Further, as noted above, our previous decision addressed the question ofwhether the agencies that the 
Petitioner worked for could be considered to have distinguished reputations; we determined that the 
Petitioner had not submitted evidence to address that possibility. The Petitioner must support its 
assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 
376. The Petitioner's current contention is that.__ _______ __.have distinguished reputations 
based on their "award winning" campaigns. However, similar to the deficiency related to his asserted 
critical roles, the Petitioner failed to meet his burden of proof relating to distinguished reputation. A 
distinguished reputation cannot be implied by association but must instead be established with 
relevant, probative, and credible evidence. Id. 
The Petitioner did not sufficiently establish that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not shown 
that our previous decision misinterpreted the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). As we 
concluded previously, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Finally, we advised in our prior decision that although not required by Kazarian, we reviewed the 
record in the aggregate and determined that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. While the Petitioner 
has had some success providing image modeling for promotional use by prominent clients, we 
concluded that he had not shown that the recognition ofhis work rises to the required level of sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
ofthe Act. Moreover, we determined that the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). On motion, the Petitioner has not established that 
this determination was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that it was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
In the present case, we folly reviewed the evidence ofrecord and rendered our previous decision based 
on that evidence in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and USCIS policy. On motion to 
reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion will be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 14, 2023 In Re: 28052420 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lecturer in the biochemistry field, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been employed since 2016 as a lecturer for the University I 
'----------.==!...I 1.:..:·n:......:.:th.:..:e~D=---.:.ei:.partment of Chemistry and Biochemistry. He received his Ph.D. in 
biochemistry froml IUniversity. He indicates his intention to continue his work in the 
same field in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet five of the criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), based 
on evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles in 
professional publications. The Director concluded that the record did not support the Petitioner's 
claims that he could meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of 
published material about the Petitioner in certain media; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
evidence of original contributions of major significance in the field; and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
which requires evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills three criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria 
and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on two articles posted on the website 
News.uncg.edu. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
2 I 
and author of the material. 1 The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that any of 
the media in which these articles appeared were one of the qualifying types under this criterion. 2 On 
appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that "both of those articles showed my contribution as a teacher and 
the impact I have made as a teacher." 
The first Newsc=}edu article (October 19, 2021), also published in thel ICampus Weekly 
newsletter, reflects published material about him relating to his work. The second NewsC=:]edu 
article relates to an alumna who appeared on the television series "The Voice," mentions the Petitioner 
as her favorite professor, and quotes his recollections ofher as a student in his organic chemistry class. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that NewsLJdu or thel !Campus Weekly newsletter 
represents a major medium. 1pecificjlly, the Petitioner offered an email from the web manager of 
university communications at who indicated the first Ne~du article '"received about 
27 views per day" in the four weeks after its publication, and thel__JCampus Weekly newsletter 
was emailed to "roughly 3,000" faculty and staff. However, the Petitioner did not show the 
significance ofthe Newse=::}du on !Campus Weekly newsletter circulation figures or explain 
how such data reflects status as a major medium. 3 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he or she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 4 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 The Director further found that the above-referenced published materials do not meet this criterion because they do not 
address '"the merits of the [Petitioner's] work" and his '"standing in the field." However, these considerations do not relate 
to whether the Petitioner has met the plain language of this criterion. As discussed above, if the Petitioner had satisfied at 
least three criteria, which he has not, then we would have analyzed those articles as part of the totality of the evidence in 
a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows his successes are sufficient to establish that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. Although we need not conduct such an analysis in this case, we briefly note 
that we do not find the record (including the evidence under this criterion) to be indicative of the sustained acclaim and 
recognition for achievements required for this highly restrictive classification. 
3 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 Id. (finding that although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that 
the work is of major significance). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his research "has provided a meaningful contribution to the 
common knowledge pool of the cysteine desulfurase community and iron enzyme community." 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters from his co-authors praising him for his contributions, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the 
letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, point to the 
citation of his work by others, and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do 
not demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. 
A letter from P-C-D-S-, the Petitioner's supervisor at I I University, discussed his 
dissertation work at that institution on reactions involving cysteine desulfurases and sulfur acceptors. 
Specifically, his research proposed that the kinetic behavior of those enzymes is dependent on the 
availability of downstream pathway components and reducing agents. In addition, his 2013 article 
I I describing reactions involving the I I system provided the first 
experimental evidence for this proposal and is relevant to the issue ofthe ability ofpathogenic bacteria 
to resist antibiotics. 
Further, P-C-D-S- explained that his 2019 article I Idemonstrated that the enzyme pair 
thioredoxin (Trx) and thioredoxin reductase participates in coupled kinetic schemes with enzymes 
involved in the synthesis ofFe-S clusters and thionucleosides. She claimed that his two articles "have 
been cited over 56 times and inspired subsequent mechanistic studies on cysteine desulfurases in other 
species." Moreover, P-C-D-S- stated that the Petitioner created a cloning library with 21 different 
plasmids that continue to aid experiments in her lab that are funded by the National Science 
Foundation, and "have advanced the understanding of the biosynthesis of Fe-S clusters in bacteria." 
Although she opined that the Petitioner's findings "shifted a paradigm" in his research field, she did 
not expand upon the impact or influence in the wider field. 
K-B-, the Petitioner's colleague at I I University and a co-author on his 2019 article 
.______ _.I, indicates that his research contributions "helped us establish the impact of the Trx 
system on Fe-S biogenesis" and "allowed us to propose a novel model for redox regulation and Fe-S 
metabolism in Gram-positive bacteria." However, K-B-did not elaborate and describe how this work 
has somehow affected the field in a significant manner. 
The above letters primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research 
studies without describing a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of 
biochemistry, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the 
specific field. 5 The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have 
been widely implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable 
impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits an excerpt ofhis publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But 
this evidence does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of biochemistry rises to 
the level of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has 
shown that his findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. We 
acknowledge, however, that evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "6 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights a research article he previously referenced that cited to his work. 
As discussed, the Petitioner has demonstrated that others have cited to his work in their journal papers; 
however, the mere citation ofwork by others does not automatically show "major significance." Here, 
the referenced article does not reflect the impact ofthe Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond 
the authors who cited to his work. The article, entitled I I 
, in which the authors~-----~----~------------------~ cite to his 2013~---~article, does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work 
from the other 32 cited papers, nor does the article credit his work for being majorly significant. 
The research article highlighted by the Petitioner references his work as evidence of recent research, 
and, while the article indicates that the authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well 
as the work of the other cited scientists, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views 
his published findings as original contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance," as required 
by this regulatory criterion. 
Considered together, the evidence, consisting of the reference letters from his fellow biochemists and 
excerpts ofcitations to his published findings and his citation statistics, establishes that the Petitioner's 
published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field of 
biochemistry. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an individual contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. It is not the title of a role, but rather 
the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 7 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish his critical role as a lecturer forl p~ On appeal, 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
7 Id. 
8 The Director further found that the submitted exhibits "provide no detail about how, exactly, you have influenced others 
in your field at least on a national scale by serving in the various roles described." However, these considerations do not 
5 
the Petitioner maintains that "my ability to teach multiple disciplines ofchemistry is vital to the success 
of our department," and references recommendation letters from four colleagues atl 19 
Specifically, in two letters, M-P-C-, head of the I IDepartment of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 
relates that the Petitioner's "experience and expertise in teaching lectures and labs in the areas of 
Chemistry and Biochemistry are clear evidence of his value to the academic community." Instead of 
describing how the Petitioner has significantly contributed to the outcomes and activities oftheI I 
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, M-P-C-offers a general job description and duties of the 
position. For instance, he provides that the Petitioner "has taught 13 lectures or labs since he started 
in the fall of 2016. These courses range from the most introductory course ... to the Biochemistry 
labs that are for upper-level undergraduate students or graduate students." 
His second letter further details the Petitioner's duties as a lecturer, including teaching lectures and 
labs in Biochemistry as well as other disciplines such as Organic Chemistry, General Chemistry and 
General Education Chemistry Lecture and Labs. He provides that "[h ]is expertise to teach multiple 
disciplines of Chemistry is critical for our course-scheduling team." M-P-C-did not provide specific 
information, explaining how the Petitioner has performed in a critical role. 10 He did not, for example, 
detail what contributions the Petitioner made in his role as a lecturer for the department and show how 
his role as a lecturer resulted in successes or achievements for the department signifying a crucial or 
essential role. 
Similarly, the letter from D-B-, a senior lecturer in the department, reflects the nature ofthe role rather 
than how the Petitioner has performed in a critical role for the department, as claimed. Specifically, 
D-B-states that the Petitioner "has taught 13 of the 33 courses (39%) the department offers to 
undergraduate students" and provides "it is vital to the department's mission to have someone who 
has the expertise to teach such diverse areas of chemistry."11 A letter from J-J-R-, an associate 
professor who was part of the hiring committee that recruited the Petitioner, states that he "is the only 
faculty member in our department who is actively involved in teaching such diverse group of topics 
in chemistry." A letter from K-S-P-, an associate professor in the department, provides that the 
Petitioner's "role in our department is extremely critical because he works with the three disciplines 
of Chemistry: Organic Chemistry, General Chemistry, and Biochemistry." Again, these letters do not 
indicate or explain what contributions the Petitioner made in teaching chemistry disciplines and how 
those contributions resulted in successful outcomes or activities for the department, or establish that 
he was responsible for the department's success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning 
of "critical role." 
relate to whether the Petitioner has met the plain language of this criterion. The level of recognition received by the 
Petitioner as a lecturer at I lwould be more relevant 
te to an examination of the totality of the evidence in a final merits 
determination, as discussed above. 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner also states, "I agree [] with adjutcating officer's conclusion that I have not provided enough 
evidence that my role was in a leadership position at ." 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
11 We note that in his letter D-B-indicates that as the department's most senior full-time lecturer he has "taught over 150 
sections of 12 different courses." 
6 
Finally, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the I IDepartment of Chemistry and 
Biochemistry qualifies as an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as 
required under this criterion. The record contains articles from the department's website providing 
information on its offered degrees and past department heads. These documents provide general 
information about the department but they are insufficient to establish that it has a distinguished ~on. The Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the 
L___JDepartment of Chemistry and Biochemistry , and how its reputation compares to similar 
departments, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished 
reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 19, 2023 In Re: 28111586 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner specializes in photographing babies and seeks classification under the employment­
based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim and, through extensive documentation , recognition of their 
achievements in their fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that she also meets two additional requirements: receipt of internationally recognized prizes 
or awards in the field; and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases . 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has established her receipt of internationally recognized awards in the 
field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these initial evidentiary requirements, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements that rank a noncitizen among 
the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a Russian native and citizen, is a professional photographer specializing in newborns. 
She was inspired by Australian photographer Anne Geddes, whose pictures of babies fascinated her 
as a child. She attended the International Institute of Advertising inl Iand, after gaining 
experience in the fashion industry, opened her own modeling agency. She realized her childhood 
dream of photographing newborns after completing photography workshops, classes about children, 
and a course in relationship psychology. In the United States, she seeks to continue her work as a 
newborn photographer. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Thus, to initially qualify for the requested immigrant visa category before a 
final merits determination, she must satisfy at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary criteria. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If these evidentiary standards "do not readily apply" to her occupation, 
she may submit "comparable evidence." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner met two initial evidentiary criteria: 
published material about her relating to her work in the field; and evidence of her participation as a 
judge of others' work in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she also demonstrated her receipt of internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field and submitted evidence of her work's display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i), (vii). 
A. Receipt of Internationally Recognized Prizes or A wards 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). When assessing whether a petitioner meets this criterion, USCIS first determines 
whether they received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2) App'x, 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Agency then examines whether their rewards were "in the field 
of endeavor" and "nationally or internationally recognized." Id. Considerations include: the criteria 
used to grant the awards or prizes; their national or international significance; the number ofrecipients; 
and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of several awards she received at photography competitions. The 
Director, however, found that most of the events occurred multiple times a year, suggesting that "the 
petitioner's awards are not uncommon in her field." The Director also found insufficient evidence of 
media coverage showing national or international recognition of her awards. The Director noted the 
2 
Petitioner's receipt of an honorable mention citation at the 2021 International Photography Awards 
(IPA). But the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish the number of honorable mention 
recipients or the category and competition level in which she received recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence. She states her submission 
of proof of two honorable mention citations at the 2021 IP A and the prizes' categories, competition 
levels, and international media coverage. The Petitioner also contends that she received prizes -
including the IP A awards -in two annual competitions. Although events in which she won other 
awards occurred more frequently, she submitted evidence that internationally recognized judges 
awarded the prizes and that hundreds of photographers from around the world competed for them. 
As the Petitioner argues, the record shows her receipt of two honorable mention citations at the 2021 
IPA. For both prizes, the category was 'I I' and the competition level was 
"Professional." The Petitioner also submitted evidence ofIPA media coverage, including a list of the 
competition's global corporate partners and coverage examples from newspapers, magazines, and 
other media around the world. The competition's website indicates that, in the Petitioner's category 
and level in 2021, the judges issued several honorable mention awards. See IP A, "Honorable 
Mentions," https: //photoawards. com/winner/hmention. php? compN ame= IP A+ 2021. 
The Petitioner did not win any of the top three awards in her category and level at the 2021 IPA. But, 
based on her two IP A honorable mention awards in the same year for two separate photos, a 
preponderance of the evidence demonstrates her receipt of internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in her field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)((i). We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
contrary finding. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has met the 
requisite three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant 
visa category. We therefore need not consider whether she also demonstrated her work's display at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of her field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Director did not reach that 
finding, and we decline to make the determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the 
matter. On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety 
to make a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEPT. 26, 2023 In Re: 28586944 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The 
Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that, although the Petitioner 
established that she satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, she did not establish, as required, 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the small percentage at 
the very top of the field. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to 
reconsider, which we dismissed as untimely. The matter is now before us on combined motions to 
reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The official with jurisdiction over a 
motion may, for proper cause shown, reopen the proceeding or reconsider the prior decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5( a)( 1 )(i). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for 
the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new 
evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
Therefore, we begin by discussing the circumstances underlying that decision. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on February 16, 2022. In that decision, we discussed the merits 
of the petition. Upon dismissal ofthe appeal, the Petitioner had 33 days to file a motion. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i). COVID-19 flexibilities then in place added 60 days to the allotted time. See "USCIS 
Extends Flexibility for Responding to Agency Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/newsroom/ 
alerts/uscis-extends-flexibility-for-responding-to-agency-requests-1. As a result, a timely motion had 
to be filed no later than May 20, 2022. 
On May l 0, 2022, the Petitioner attempted to file the combined motions, but U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) rejected the filing as deficient, stating it did not meet filing 
requirements. The Petitioner then re-filed the motion on June 9, 2022, after the filing deadline had 
elapsed. 
We dismissed the motion on February 15, 2023, stating: "The motion to reconsider was filed untimely. 
Thus, the motion does not meet applicable requirements." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) 
requires the dismissal of a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. 
On motion from that decision, the Petitioner contests the dismissal of the earlier motion, stating that 
she filed the motion within the time permitted. The Petitioner submits copies of mailing records and 
asserts that USCIS should have accepted the May 2022 filing. The record, however, does not show 
that the Petitioner properly filed the motion in May 2022. 
The instructions to Form I-290B, Notice ofAppeal or Motion, state on page 7: 
Where To File? 
Use the chart at www.uscis.gov/i-290b-addresses to dete1mine the cmrect filing 
address for your appeal or motion. Form I-290B is not considered received by USCIS 
unless you file it at the proper location. 
DO NOT FILE FORM I-290B DIRECTLY WITH THE AAO. 
The filing address chart mentioned above indicates that, to file a motion on an AAO decision, filers 
should send Form I-290B to "[t]he USCIS office that made the original unfavorable decision." The 
chart includes an illustrative example: 
Example: The USCIS Miami Field Office denied your Form I-601. You filed an appeal 
with the AAO, but AAO dismisses the appeal. You want to file a motion asking that 
AAO reconsider its dismissal. You should file your motion with the Chicago Lockbox 
because the Miami Field Office issued the original denial on your case. 
The Petitioner's motion includes a printout ofthe filing address instructions quoted directly above. 
In this case, the Texas Service Center issued the original unfavorable decision by denying the petition. 
The chart identified above specified that filings disputing Service Center decisions should be sent to 
the "USCIS Phoenix Lockbox." 
2 
On motion, the Petitioner states that she followed these instructions, but evidence submitted on motion 
does not support that claim. 
The Petitioner states: "we filed I-290B on May 10, 2022 to AAO and a copy also submitted to decision 
location -Texas Service Center." The May 2022 cover letter and mailing receipts submitted on 
motion are consistent with this statement. Those documents appear to indicate that, instead of sending 
the complete, original May 2022 filing to the Phoenix Lockbox in accordance with instructions, the 
Petitioner attempted to file the motion directly with the AAO, with a copy sent, without fee, directly 
to the Texas Service Center. The May 2022 cover letter also referred to a courtesy copy sent to the 
Phoenix Lockbox, but the letter did not indicate that the Phoenix Lockbox received a complete filing 
with both a brief and the required fee. 
Correspondence submitted with the latest motion indicates that the Phoenix Lockbox received the May 
2022 motion on May 19, 2022 and rejected it on May 31, 2022, stating the motion lacked necessary 
information and therefore was not complete. The Form I-290B that the Petitioner executed in May 
2022 did not include any information about the basis for the motion, and therefore if it were filed 
without either the brief or the fee then it would not have constituted a complete, properly executed 
motion. The available evidence does not establish that the May 2022 mailing to the Phoenix Lockbox 
included both the brief and the fee. 
The AAO does not directly accept motion filings, and therefore the Form I-290B instructions 
specifically direct applicants and petitioners not to "file Form I-290B directly with the AAO." 
By the time the Petitioner refiled the complete motion with the Phoenix Lockbox in June 2022, the 
filing deadline had passed. 
Every form, benefit request, or other document must be submitted and executed in accordance with 
the form instructions. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l). Here, the Form I-290B instructs petitioners not to send 
motions directly to the AAO, but the Petitioner did so anyway. The Petitioner cites this direct mailing 
to the AAO as evidence of timely filing, but it serves to indicate that the Petitioner did not timely and 
properly file the May 2022 motion in accordance with the form instructions to retain a filing date. 
The postal documentation submitted on motion constitutes new evidence relating to the mailing and 
delivery of the prior motion, but the new evidence does not establish that we erred in dismissing the 
first motion as untimely. Rather, it confirms that the May 2022 motion was not properly filed. 
Therefore, the newly submitted evidence does not establish proper cause to reopen the proceeding. 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. The Petitioner has not met 
her burden of proof to establish that she made any timely submission that complied with applicable 
policy and regulations. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 27, 2023 In Re: 28154174 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate the 
petitioner's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the petitioner meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows the petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context ofthe totality ofthe evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner started surfing at the age of 11 and entered the competitive surfing arena at the age of 
16. During her career she has participated in various surfing events, including those sponsored by the 
International Surfing Association (ISA) -at the world junior surf competition, the Brazilian 
Association of Professional Surfing (ABRASP), and the Professional Junior (PRO JR) and World 
Qualifying Series (WQS). Additionally, she has participated in "free surfing" events which "entails 
[ a group of surfers] traveling to unexplored locations, places rarely visited by tourists" in order to surf 
there, which were documented by social media and movie production firms. The Petitioner states that 
she will continue to surf competitively and will accept an employment offer from a private firm who 
"specialize[ s] in facilitating the creation of commercial relationships between professional surf 
athletes, media companies, and surf brands operating in the surf industry." 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii) -relating to published material and display of her work, 
which is supported by the record. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets three other regulatory criteria relating to awards, 
membership, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (viii). She does not 
assert eligibility under the judging (iv), original contributions (v), authorship (vi), high salary (ix), or 
commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address 
these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). We 
2 
have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. While we may not discuss every document in the 
record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of this regulation, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner is the recipient of prizes or 
awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and that each prize or award is 
one for excellence in the field of endeavor. See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, (which provides a non-exhaustive 
list ofrelevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion). 
The Director reviewed the initial evidence, then issued a request for evidence (RFE), advising the 
Petitioner that she had not demonstrated that the claimed awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized and requested additional documentary evidence in support of her eligibility under this 
criterion. The Director stated that such evidence should demonstrate the criteria used to grant the 
awards, their significance (including the national or international recognition associated with the 
awards), the reputation of the organization or panel granting the awards, the geographic scope of the 
awards and any limitations on competitors, the number of awards or prizes granted, evidence related 
to previous award winners, and public announcements of the awards. 
As evidence of her lesser national or international awards, the Petitioner offered evidence initially and 
in the RFE response, such as background material about the competitive surfing sport, the 
organizations that oversee the competitive surfing sports and the entities that have sponsored the 
surfing events that she has competed in. She also provided evidence of her participation in surfing 
events and her competitive ranking relative to other participants based on her surfing performance 
therein. The Director denied the petition, in part, concluding that the evidence submitted was 
insufficient to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first points to her participation on "Team Brazil" at the 2006 ISAI I 
.____________ __.I asserting that she won a bronze medal at this junior-level event as a 
member of the team, and that the Director erred in determining that her competitive placement in this 
event did not meet the plain language of this criterion. The Petitioner provided a May 2006 media 
article about this event.[ Iwhich indicates that 
she and another Brazilian teammate were "eliminated by Australian [K-T-] and New Zealander [ A­
M-] in the first women's event." It is not apparent from the evidence provided that any award or medal 
garnered by Team Brazil at this event can be directly attributed to the Petitioner as an award or prize 
that meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Moreover, ISA's online ranking data for this "under the age of 18 (U18)" event, reflects that Brazilian 
surfer D-S-was credited with 3rd place ranking for U18 women competitors, not the Petitioner. See 
generally https://isasurfor~ I While the Petitioner provides a picture of herself 
with an award and maintains that she won a bronze medal at this event, other evidence submitted with 
3 
the petition and from ISA' s website suggests otherwise. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency 
and ambiguity in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Without more, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner's participation at this event does not meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also contests the Director's determination that her 9th place showing in two 
WQS surfing competitions,~-----------------------~were not 
equivalent to actually receiving an award. The Director observed that the record did not reflect, for 
example, that publications or news outlets with a national or international audience reported on her 9th 
place finishes, nor did the Petitioner provide other evidence sufficient to show that a 9th place finish 
in these competitions is accepted in the field of competitive surfing as national or international 
recognition for excellence. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that WQS is "pro surfing's minor league," that its events are difficult, and 
that "[anyone] who wants to get to world championship level has to compete in WQS tour events and 
gain enough points to be ranked in the WQS top 16 at the end of the year." On appeal, she provides 
general evidence about WQS and WQS events, and information specific to the events she participated 
in. She also notes that other competitive surfers who currently rank toward the top level in the World 
Surf League (WSL) competed against her at these events. But she does not adequately address the 
Director's concern that the record does not reflect that her own 9th place showing at these events 
constitutes her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in 
the field of professional surfing. For these reasons, this criterion has not been met. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, which in 
this case is professional surfing. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2. 
The Petitioner maintains that she met this criterion based on her membership in several organizations, 
including WSL, ABRASP, and the Confederacao Brasileira de Surf (CBS). The Director determined 
that the initial evidence did not provide sufficient evidence about the Petitioner's membership in these 
organizations or their membership requirements to establish that this criterion had been met. In the 
RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not establish that she is a 
member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding achievements in the 
field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. He requested 
evidence to establish her membership in these organizations and information about the organizations' 
membership offerings, such as the sections of their bylaws or similar evidence which discuss the 
criteria for membership and the qualifications required of those who review membership applications. 
4 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner did not sufficiently address this aspect. Turning to 
her WSL membership, the Petitioner provided a letter from P-, the president of the Brazilian surfing 
confederation who indicates that she holds membership in the WSL. In his letter he notes that the 
Petitioner was selected to participate in the WQS professional surfing events based on her ranking 
among women surfers under the age of 18, and through this process she gained membership in WSL. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide the requested information from WSL to illustrate their varying 
levels of membership, if any, nor did she provide WSL's bylaws or similar documentation which 
discuss their criteria for membership and identifies the qualifications of the individuals who review its 
membership applications. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided letters from other individuals that discuss the Petitioner's 
membership in other surfing-related organizations, which suggest that she gained membership based 
on her competitive surfing record, but she did not provide specific membership-related evidence from 
these organizations. The Petitioner denied the petition, in part, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient evidence from the organizations in which she claims to hold membership that 
describing their membership requirements and how members are selected. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in his determination that the evidence 
provided was insufficient to meet the plain language requirements ofthis criterion. In her appeal brief: 
she incorporates the same narrative that she submitted in response to the Director's RFE, including 
the same excerpts of the letters that we mention above which were considered by the Director in 
denying the petition. She references a copy of the "CBS Rule Book detailing [its membership] 
selection process" that she previously submitted and asserts that the Director ignored the evidence she 
offered about CBS. However, we conclude that the Petitioner's reliance on this material to establish 
eligibility under this criterion is misplaced. The submitted "CBS Rule Book" comprises the first three 
pages of a ten-page internet document which discusses CBS' history and identifies the various 
categories under which a surfer can compete, such as the "U18: For male and female surfers who are 
not 19 during the year" category and provides a chart listing how it will rank competitors during its 
surfing events. This material does not identify the types of memberships that CBS offers, its criteria 
for membership, and how individuals are selected for membership. 
Considering the Petitioner's statements and the reference letters, as well as the evidence provided from 
the WSL, ABRASP, and CBS organizations' websites -which based on our review do not appear to 
address their membership requirements -we determine the record does not contain sufficient 
documentary evidence to demonstrate the organizations' membership eligibility requirements, how 
members are selected, and that the Petitioner's own asserted membership in these organizations was 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field of professional surfing. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. In the 
5 
I evidence before the Director the Petitioner stated that she qualifies for this criterion based on her 
competitive surfing record, and in other activities that she has engaged in to promote the sport, 
including the surfing documentaries, marketing campaigns, and the film festivals where some of this 
material has been shown. 
The Director denied the petition in part, noting that the record did not substantiate the Petitioner's 
claim of having performed in a leading or critical role for organizations, such as the WSL,I 
(J-) magazine, and a film company, I l(C-). With regard to WSL, the Petitioner references 
the letter from P-who suggests that the Petitioner's surfing record as a member of the junior-level 
TEAM Brazil in 2006, and later as a surfing competitor in the WQS minor league rises to the level of 
performing in a leading or critical role for the WSL organization. P-does not indicate whether the 
Petitioner has ever been employed by WSL or explain how her leadership and critical role 
contributions to WSL compares to others who are holding positions of authority and responsibility 
within the organization. P-also mentions the media outlets and documentary film productions that 
the Petitioner has been involved with, noting that "her trajectory and skills in surfing have granted 
broad recognition in the surf community and have enabled her to be featured in multiple publications 
and documentaries," which plays an important role in the promotion of the sport." 
While we acknowledge that the WSL may enjoy a distinguished reputation in the surfing world, 
without more, the evidence falls short in establishing how the Petitioner's involvement in WQS events 
and media activities which generally promote the sport of surfing translates into her performing a 
leading or critical role for the WSL organization, itself. 
Turning to her activities for J-magazine, the owner of the magazine provided a letter, stating "[b ]y 
featuring [the Petitioner] on social media posts, working with her on photo shoots, and launching a 
series of stories from her global travels, the strategy is already exceeding my expectation as Brazil is 
now our second largest audience. I owe this almost entirely to [the Petitioner]." As noted by the 
Director in the denial, J-made the editorial decision to feature the Petitioner's images in their 
publication, but the evidence does not suggest that she held any actual role in the company itself. 
Additionally, we note that the Director requested evidence to show that J-has a distinguished 
reputation, but the Petitioner has not addressed this issue other than stating in the RFE response that 
J-"has been the online destination for women surfers and girl surfers looking for the best surf photos 
video clips, and surfing stories. It is a leading organization in the important role of empowering 
women in a sport that has been historically dominated by men." Notably, she did not substantiate her 
assertions regarding J-'s reputation with supporting documentary evidence, as requested by the 
Director. 
Similarly, the Petitioner looks to her involvement in a film project, which was directed by the C-film 
company, for the proposition that she performed a leading or critical role for this organization. The 
record contains a letter from the director and executive producer of this film project, in which he 
describes the success of the project and the Petitioner's involvement therein: 
In recent years we have produced an average of seven original series per year for our 
main client [] and in 2019 we received a world medal at New York Festivals for a series 
shot between Alaska and Russia, named []. The success of [this series], besides its 
multi-layered production design and technical challenges, lies in the talent that took 
6 
part m 1t. [The Petitioner] was a joy to work with and it was a wonderful surprise to 
learn that her talent goes well beyond the world of sports. [She] is a committed 
professional and a pivotal part of the team that handled with perseverance, wit and 
unlimited dedication the complexities of such a production. We strongly recommend 
[her] to any future venture and are totally available for further inputs about how 
important it was to have her on board with us on this award-winning project. 
The Director discussed this evidence and noted that C-featured the Petitioner in a film project but the 
evidence did not show that she held a role within C-. Additionally, though the Petitioner emphasized 
that C-won a film award for her project, she did not provide evidence sufficient to establish that C-is 
an organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that she did not hold any actual role within these media 
companies and asserts "her involvement as a woman surfer demonstrates a level of recognition and 
interest in her skills and abilities within the industry." To meet this criterion the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that she has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation, not that she enjoys a level of recognition and interest within her 
industry. For the foregoing reasons, this criterion has not been met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the 
required initial evidence ofeither a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of her professional achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one ofthe small percentage ofindividuals 
who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: SEP. 29, 2023 In Re: 28423489 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a nuclear medicine physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if: they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and, their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).) 
The Petitioner is a nuclear medicine physician who seeks to continue his work in this field in the 
United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time achievement, he must submit evidence 
meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy five of the ten criteria and is otherwise eligible 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 
The Director denied the petition after concluding that Petitioner demonstrated that he met only two of 
the five claimed criteria: 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), performance in leading or critical roles for organization or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner claimed but did not submit sufficient evidence of 
published material about him and his work in professional publications or major media; evidence 
establishing that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field; and evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v) and (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the 
previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish that he satisfied these additional criteria. He 
also submits additional evidence in support of his claims. After reviewing the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria. 
To establish eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), a petitioner must show that 
they have commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field. In evaluating this criterion, USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has 
commanded" to mean that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration. 
Therefore, a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary or remuneration may establish 
that the person has been able to command such compensation. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on evaluation ofinitial evidence 
of extraordinary ability under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Evidence relevant to demonstrating an 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he could satisfy a sixth criterion, relating to his participation as a 
judge of the work of others in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
individual's high salary may include comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, 
such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Id. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided a copy of his fully-executed employment agreement with 
his current U.S. employer, a Florida professional corporation with radiology centers located 
throughout the state. The employment agreement indicates he was engaged to practice medicine in 
his specialty at an annual salary of $300,000, beginning in March 2021, with guaranteed annual 
increases that would provide him with a base salary of $320,000 by his third year in the position. A 
letter from the employer confirmed that he commenced his employment in the offered position in 
March 2021. Subsequent letters from the Petitioner's employer indicated that he had assumed the 
position of nuclear medicine department director within several months of being hired. The record 
also contains a copy of the Petitioner's IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2022, which 
appears to reflect his salary in the department director position. 
The Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion was largely based on a 
finding that the Petitioner did not submit position-appropriate comparative wage data for the position 
of "department director," but rather provided evidence limited to physician salaries. In doing so, the 
Director disregarded the employment agreement and relied solely on the Petitioner's documented 
salary from 2022. However, we observe that the employment agreement provides sufficient evidence 
of the salary the Petitioner "has commanded" as a nuclear medicine physician and therefore can be 
compared to the submitted salary data provided for this occupation, which is the occupation he intends 
to pursue in the United States. Upon de novo review of the comparative wage data the Petitioner 
provided, we conclude he established by a preponderance of the evidence that he has commanded a 
high salary in relation to others in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has met the requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the basis for the denial of his petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the initial 
evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility 
claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks or 
establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. On remand, the Director 
should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety, including the evidence submitted 
on appeal, to make a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 