U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23071891 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 20, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts professional, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. ยง 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. ยง 204.5(h)(3 ). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
After the date this appeal was filed in January 2022, we received correspondence from the Petitioner 
stating that another Form 1-140, petitioning for immigrant status as an individual with extraordinary 
ability, was approved on his behalf on April 22, 2022. United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services records confirm that this Fo1m 1-140 was approved on behalf of the Petitioner following the 
date of this appeal. The Petitioner stated in his letter to us that it "request[ s] a transfer of the 
Underlying Basis from the initial 1-140 [the current petition] ... to the approved 1-140 Petition for the 
following1 pending Applications to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status."2 As such, given 
the Petitioner's request that the current petition longer form a basis of his adjustment, further pursuit 
of this matter is now moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner 's name and I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, receipt number was 
among those listed in the letter. 
2 We note that as an appellate office, we have no jurisdiction over the "transfer" of Forms I-140 to different Forms I-485, 
nor do we have jurisdiction over the adjustment of status. 