U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2024 In Re: 33401016 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner stated that she accomplished numerous achievements in her field of expertise which have 
been recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
The Director concluded she did not meet any of the claimed criteria and the Petitioner maintains on 
appeal that she meets the five claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts the Director made 
numerous factual errors and referenced unrelated cases, which deprived her of a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision. She specifically states that the "repetitive and generic nature of the decision, 
which mirrors language used in other unrelated cases, suggests a lack of individualized assessment 
and a failure to provide a fair and thorough adjudication." The record supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Upon review, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the Director's decision did not adequately 
address all the claimed evidentiary criteria or analyze the evidence provided and did not fully explain 
the reasons the petition was denied. 
For example, in the denial's analysis of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for 
memberships, the Director misstates the Petitioner's membership credentials as if she were part of the 
medical and radiology fields and discusses evidence not in the record when stating that the 
membership required her medical degree, evidence that she was a certified radiologist, and engaged 
in the active practice of neuroradiology. The Petitioner correctly notes that this information does not 
correspond to her documents regarding membership in organizations for the arts as a musician. While 
the Director does partially analyze the Petitioner's evidence at other points, this portion ofthe decision 
appears to reflect the contents of a different record of proceeding. 
In the denial's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) regarding published material 
about the Petitioner, the Director instead outlines the requirements necessary to establish the criterion 
for membership. In addition, the Director does not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted in 
2 
support of this criterion with any specificity and instead summarily concluded that the evidence was 
insufficient. 
In the denial's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) regarding original contributions, 
the Director instead outlined the requirements for the criterion for judging. In addition, the Director 
stated that the Petitioner should show, in part, she was invited to "referee or judge a fight." Again, the 
Petitioner is a musician and did not present any evidence of acting as a referee or judge for a fight. 
Finally, although the Petitioner claimed the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Director 
failed to discuss it in the denial decision. On appeal, the Petitioner also noted several misstatements 
and factual errors in the Director's request for evidence. 
The Director's decision did not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted with specificity and 
improperly dismissed evidence without proper explanation. In addition, the factual errors show the 
Director's decision was based on evidence not in the record of these proceedings. When denying a 
petition, an officer shall explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denial to allow the petitioner a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision and our opportunity for meaningful appellate review. Cf Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that an Immigration Judge must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion 
to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, 
the Director's errors deprived the Petitioner of a fair opportunity to appeal the denial and inhibit our 
ability to meaningfully review the denial on appeal. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief, which further addresses the previously submitted evidence. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 